examples/custom-admin-ui-navigation/README.md, before:

## Feature Example - Custom Field View

This project demonstrates how to create a custom Navigation component for use in the Admin UI. It builds on the [Task Manager](../task-manager) starter project.

## Instructions

To run this project, clone the Keystone repository locally then navigate to this directory and run:

```shell
yarn dev
```

This will start the Admin UI at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

You can use the Admin UI to create items in your database.

You can also access a GraphQL Playground at [localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql), which allows you to directly run GraphQL queries and mutations.

## admin/config.ts

The project contains an `config.ts` file in the `/admin` directory at its root. Keystone looks for this file for component customisations, and expects the following export.

```typescript
export const components = {
  Logo,
  Navigation,
};
```

The exported components object is expected to have the following type signature:

```typescript
{
    Logo?: (props: {}) => ReactElement;
    Navigation?: (props: NavigationProps) => ReactElement;
}
```

Keystone conveniently exports an AdminConfig type for DX.

```typescript
import { AdminConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
export const components: AdminConfig['components'] = {
  Logo,
  Navigation,
};
```

## NavigationProps

Keystone passes the following props to your custom Navigation component:

```typescript
   NavigationProps = {
    authenticatedItem: AuthenticatedItem,
    lists: ListMeta[]
   }
```

### authenticatedItem prop

The authenticatedItem prop is a `Union` representative of the following possible authentication states:

```typescript
type AuthenticatedItem =
  | { state: 'unauthenticated' }
  | { state: 'authenticated'; label: string; id: string; listKey: string }
  | { state: 'loading' }
  | { state: 'error'; error: Error | readonly [GraphQLError, ...GraphQLError[]] };
```

You will need to reasonably account for all of these states if you would like to role your own AuthenticatedItem component but that's out of the scope for this particular example.

### routes prop

The `lists` prop is an array of keystone list objects.

```typescript
type ListMeta = {
  /** Used for optimising the generated list of NavItems in React */
  key: string;
  /** Used as the href for each list generated NavItem */
  path: string;
  /** Used as the label for each list generated NavItem */
  label: string;
  /** Other properties exists, but these are the ones that are relevant to the Navigation implementation */
};

type Lists = ListMeta[];
```

## Navigation components

Keystone exports the following components to make creating your own custom Navigation component easier. These are:

- NavigationContainer: A generic container element that also includes rendering logic for the passed in authenticatedItem.
- ListNavItems: This component renders out a list of Nav Items with preconfigured route matching logic optimised for lists.
- NavItem: A thin styling and accessibility wrapper around the Next.js `Link` component.

### NavigationContainer

The NavigationContainer is responsible for rendering semantic markup and styles for the containing element around your navigation items.
It's also responsible for rendering out the `authenticatedItem` should it exist. It has the following prop signature:

```typescript
type NavigationContainerProps = {
  authenticatedItem: AuthenticatedItem;
  children: ReactNode;
};
```

Pass it the `authenticatedItem` from the `NavigationProps` for it to handle rendering logic around user signin.

```tsx
const CustomNavigation = ({ authenticatedItem }) => {
  return (
    <NavigationContainer authenticatedItem={authenticatedItem}>
      {/* The rest of your Nav goes here */}
    </NavigationContainer>
  );
};
```

### ListNavItems

```ts
type ListNavItemsProps = {
  lists: ListMeta[];
  include?: string[];
};
```

The ListNavItems component expects `lists` an array of list objects and renders a list of NavItems. It also optionally takes `include`, an array of strings. If this array is passed to this component, only lists with a `key` property that matches an element in the `include` array will be rendered. If this array is not passed into the component, all lists will be rendered.

### ListNavItem

```typescript
type ListNavItemProps = {
  list: ListMeta;
};
```

The ListNavItem component takes a single `list` object and renders a `NavItem`. This is a thin wrapper around `NavItem`, that automates the association of list properties to NavItem. It also adds a custom `isSelected` expression optimised for keystone lists.

The impetus behind `ListNavItem` is to have a higher-level abstraction that can allow users to not have to care about the contents and structure of our lists. This is especially relevant for future feature additions to the nav. (i.e. if we add icon support, that would work out of the box from a dependency bump for users of ListNavItem, whereas you'd have to add that icon prop manually leveraging a lower level component.)

### NavItem

The NavItem component has the following type signature:

```typescript
type NavItemProps = {
  children: ReactNode;
  href: string;
  isSelected?: boolean;
};
```

By default the `isSelected` value if left undefined, will be evaluated by the condition `router.pathname === href`, pass in `isSelected` if you have a custom condition or would like more granular control over the selected state of Navigation items.

See also the [Custom Navigation guide](httpes://keystonejs.com/docs/guides/custom-admin-ui-navigation).

Commit message:

update README copy to be inline with navigation guide

examples/custom-admin-ui-navigation/README.md, after:

## Feature Example - Custom Field View

This project demonstrates how to create a custom Navigation component for use in the Admin UI. It builds on the [Task Manager](../task-manager) starter project.

## Instructions

To run this project, clone the Keystone repository locally then navigate to this directory and run:

```shell
yarn dev
```

This will start the Admin UI at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

You can use the Admin UI to create items in your database.

You can also access a GraphQL Playground at [localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql), which allows you to directly run GraphQL queries and mutations.

## admin/config.ts

The project contains an `config.ts` file in the `/admin` directory at its root. Keystone looks for this file for component customisations, and expects the following export.

```typescript
export const components = {
  Logo,
  Navigation,
};
```

The exported components object is expected to have the following type signature:

```typescript
{
    Logo?: (props: {}) => ReactElement;
    Navigation?: (props: NavigationProps) => ReactElement;
}
```

Keystone conveniently exports an AdminConfig type for DX.

```typescript
import { AdminConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
export const components: AdminConfig['components'] = {
  Logo,
  Navigation,
};
```

## NavigationProps

Keystone passes the following props to your custom Navigation component:

```typescript
   NavigationProps = {
    authenticatedItem: AuthenticatedItem,
    lists: ListMeta[]
   }
```

### authenticatedItem prop

The authenticatedItem prop is a `Union` representative of the following possible authentication states:

```typescript
type AuthenticatedItem =
  | { state: 'unauthenticated' }
  | { state: 'authenticated'; label: string; id: string; listKey: string }
  | { state: 'loading' }
  | { state: 'error'; error: Error | readonly [GraphQLError, ...GraphQLError[]] };
```

You will need to reasonably account for all of these states if you would like to role your own AuthenticatedItem component but that's out of the scope for this particular example.

### routes prop

The `lists` prop is an array of keystone list objects.

```typescript
type ListMeta = {
  /** Used for optimising the generated list of NavItems in React */
  key: string;
  /** Used as the href for each list generated NavItem */
  path: string;
  /** Used as the label for each list generated NavItem */
  label: string;
  /** Other properties exists, but these are the ones that are relevant to the Navigation implementation */
};

type Lists = ListMeta[];
```

## Navigation components

Keystone exports the following components to make creating your own custom Navigation component easier. These are:

- NavigationContainer: A generic container element that also includes rendering logic for the passed in authenticatedItem.
- ListNavItems: This component renders out a list of Nav Items with preconfigured route matching logic optimised for lists.
- NavItem: A thin styling and accessibility wrapper around the Next.js `Link` component.

### NavigationContainer

The NavigationContainer is responsible for rendering semantic markup and styles for the containing element around your navigation items.
It's also responsible for rendering out the `authenticatedItem` should it exist. It has the following prop signature:

```typescript
type NavigationContainerProps = {
  authenticatedItem: AuthenticatedItem;
  children: ReactNode;
};
```

Pass it the `authenticatedItem` from the `NavigationProps` for it to handle rendering logic around user signin.

```tsx
const CustomNavigation = ({ authenticatedItem }) => {
  return (
    <NavigationContainer authenticatedItem={authenticatedItem}>
      {/* The rest of your Nav goes here */}
    </NavigationContainer>
  );
};
```

### ListNavItems

```ts
type ListNavItemsProps = {
  lists: ListMeta[];
  include?: string[];
};
```

The ListNavItems component expects `lists` an array of list objects and renders a list of NavItems. It also optionally takes `include`, an array of strings. If this array is passed to this component, only lists with a `key` property that matches an element in the `include` array will be rendered. If this array is not passed into the component, all lists will be rendered.

### ListNavItem

```typescript
type ListNavItemProps = {
  list: ListMeta;
};
```

The ListNavItem component takes a single `list` object and renders a `NavItem`. This is a thin wrapper around `NavItem`, that automates the association of list properties to NavItem. It also adds a custom `isSelected` expression optimised for keystone lists.

The idea behind `ListNavItem` is to have a higher-level abstraction that makes it easier to render navigation links for lists consistently.
This is especially relevant for future feature additions to the nav. (i.e. if we add icon support, that would work out of the box from a dependency bump for users of ListNavItem, whereas you'd have to add that icon prop manually with a lower level component.)

### NavItem

The NavItem component has the following type signature:

```typescript
type NavItemProps = {
  children: ReactNode;
  href: string;
  isSelected?: boolean;
};
```

By default the `isSelected` value if left undefined, will be evaluated by the condition `router.pathname === href`, pass in `isSelected` if you have a custom condition or would like more granular control over the selected state of Navigation items.

See also the [Custom Navigation guide](httpes://keystonejs.com/docs/guides/custom-admin-ui-navigation).
