README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/readme-header-next.png" width="445">
  <br><br>
  <p><b>A scalable platform and CMS to build Node.js applications.</b></p>
  <p><code>schema => ({ GraphQL, AdminUI })</code></p>
  <br>
  <p>Keystone Next is a preview of the next major release of KeystoneJS, the most powerful headless content management system around.</p>
  <sub>Looking for Keystone 5? Head over to <a href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5"><code>keystone-5</code></a>.</sub>
  <br>
</div>
<br>

<!-- ![CI](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/workflows/CI/badge.svg) -->

<!-- [![slack](https://keystone-community.now.sh//badge.svg)](https://keystone-community.now.sh/) -->

<!-- [![Supported by Thinkmill](https://thinkmill.github.io/badge/heart.svg)](http://thinkmill.com.au/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=react-select) -->

## Contents

- [What's new?](#whats-new)
- [Keystone 5](#keystone-5)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [License](#license)

## What's new?

[Keystone Next](http://next.keystonejs.com) is a preview of the next major release of KeystoneJS, the most powerful headless content management system around. We've substantially rewritten the CLI, Schema config, and Admin UI to make them more powerful and easier to use than ever before.

To learn more, check out our [What's next for KeystoneJS](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/issues/4962) announcement post.

You can learn more about the next version, which is now [in preview](https://next.keystonejs.com/roadmap).

## Keystone 5

The [Keystone 5](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5) codebase is now in active maintenance mode and now lives at [keystonejs/keystone-5](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5).

For more information please read our [Keystone 5 and beyond](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5/issues/21) post.

<!-- ## Getting Started -->

<!-- TBC -->

## Documentation

The [Keystone Next](https://next.keystonejs.com/whats-new) website contains a documentation preview.

In the next month you'll see a new project starter and getting started guide, as well as a new set of example projects demoing how to use Keystone Next features.

## Feedback

We'd love to hear your feedback, reach out on Twitter at [KeystoneJS](https://twitter.com/keystonejs) and [subscribe](https://next.keystonejs.com/roadmap#project-status) to be notified of our progress.

<!-- ## Version control -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ## Contributing -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Demo Projects -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Development Practices -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Setup -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Testing -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Unit Tests -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### End-to-End Tests -->

<!-- TBC -->

## Code of Conduct

KeystoneJS adheres to the [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct.md).

## License

Copyright (c) 2021 Thinkmill Labs Pty Ltd. Licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Add link to examples in root README (#5632)

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="assets/readme-header-next.png" width="445">
  <br><br>
  <p><b>A scalable platform and CMS to build Node.js applications.</b></p>
  <p><code>schema => ({ GraphQL, AdminUI })</code></p>
  <br>
  <p>Keystone Next is a preview of the next major release of KeystoneJS, the most powerful headless content management system around.</p>
  <sub>Looking for Keystone 5? Head over to <a href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5"><code>keystone-5</code></a>.</sub>
  <br>
</div>
<br>

<!-- ![CI](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/workflows/CI/badge.svg) -->

<!-- [![slack](https://keystone-community.now.sh//badge.svg)](https://keystone-community.now.sh/) -->

<!-- [![Supported by Thinkmill](https://thinkmill.github.io/badge/heart.svg)](http://thinkmill.com.au/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=react-select) -->

## Contents

- [What's new?](#whats-new)
- [Keystone 5](#keystone-5)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [License](#license)

## What's new?

[Keystone Next](http://next.keystonejs.com) is a preview of the next major release of KeystoneJS, the most powerful headless content management system around. We've substantially rewritten the CLI, Schema config, and Admin UI to make them more powerful and easier to use than ever before.

To learn more, check out our [What's next for KeystoneJS](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/issues/4962) announcement post.

You can learn more about the next version, which is now [in preview](https://next.keystonejs.com/roadmap).

## Keystone 5

The [Keystone 5](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5) codebase is now in active maintenance mode and now lives at [keystonejs/keystone-5](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5).

For more information please read our [Keystone 5 and beyond](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone-5/issues/21) post.

<!-- ## Getting Started -->

<!-- TBC -->

## Documentation

The [Keystone Next](https://next.keystonejs.com/whats-new) website contains a documentation preview.

In the next month you'll see a new project starter and getting started guide, as well as a new set of example projects demoing how to use Keystone Next features.

## Examples

The [examples](./examples) directory contains a number of complete projects which show how to use Keystone's features.

## Feedback

We'd love to hear your feedback, reach out on Twitter at [KeystoneJS](https://twitter.com/keystonejs) and [subscribe](https://next.keystonejs.com/roadmap#project-status) to be notified of our progress.

<!-- ## Version control -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ## Contributing -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Demo Projects -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Development Practices -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Setup -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Testing -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### Unit Tests -->

<!-- TBC -->

<!-- ### End-to-End Tests -->

<!-- TBC -->

## Code of Conduct

KeystoneJS adheres to the [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct.md).

## License

Copyright (c) 2021 Thinkmill Labs Pty Ltd. Licensed under the MIT License.
