examples/custom-admin-ui-logo/README.md, before:

## Feature Example - Custom Components for the Admin UI

This project demonstrates how to create a custom logo in the Admin UI.

## Instructions

To run this project, clone the Keystone repository locally then navigate to this directory and run:

```shell
yarn dev
```

This will start the Admin UI at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

You can use the Admin UI to create items in your database.

You can also access a GraphQL Playground at [localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql), which allows you to directly run GraphQL queries and mutations.

🚀 Congratulations, you're now up and running with Keystone!

## admin/pages

<<<<<<< HEAD:examples/custom-admin-ui-logo/README.md
This project shows how to export custom components to be rendered in the admin-ui via the `/admin/config` file. As elaborated on in the [Custom Components](https://keystonejs.com/docs/guides/custom-admin-ui-logo) guide, the named `components` export of this file is used to replace specific components for use in the `admin-ui`.

If you have specific components you think should also be exposed from this config, please let us know in the [KeystoneJS Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/keystonejs/shared_invite/zt-p3vix84g-MyIdzoNuHc7S5Yx2FXxiug)
=======
This project shows how to export custom components to be rendered in the Admin UI via the `/admin/config` file. As elaborated on in the [Custom Components](https://keystonejs.com/docs/guides/custom-admin-ui-components) guide, the named `components` export of this file is used to replace specific components for use in the Admin UI.
>>>>>>> a8a7b690c... Update examples/custom-admin-ui-components/README.md:examples/custom-admin-ui-components/README.md

Commit message:

add CTA to give us feedback on admin-ui components in slack

examples/custom-admin-ui-logo/README.md, after:

## Feature Example - Custom Components for the Admin UI

This project demonstrates how to create a custom logo in the Admin UI.

## Instructions

To run this project, clone the Keystone repository locally then navigate to this directory and run:

```shell
yarn dev
```

This will start the Admin UI at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

You can use the Admin UI to create items in your database.

You can also access a GraphQL Playground at [localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql), which allows you to directly run GraphQL queries and mutations.

🚀 Congratulations, you're now up and running with Keystone!

## admin/pages

This project shows how to export custom a custom logo to be rendered in the admin-ui via the `/admin/config` file. As elaborated on in the [Custom Logo](https://keystonejs.com/docs/guides/custom-admin-ui-logo) guide, the named `components` export of this file is used to replace specific components for use in the `admin-ui`.

If you have specific components you think should also be exposed from this config, please let us know on [Slack](https://community.keystonejs.com)
