docs/pages/docs/apis/auth.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';
import { Well } from '../../../components/primitives/Well';
import { RelatedContent } from '../../../components/RelatedContent';

# Authentication API

Keystone allows you to extend your Keystone system to support authentication against a `password` field using the `createAuth()` function in the `@keystone-next/auth` package.
Additional options to this function provide support for creating an initial item in your database, sending password reset tokens, and sending one-time authentication tokens.

For examples of how to use authentication in your system please see the [authentication guide](../guides/auth).

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';
import { text, password, checkbox } from '@keystone-next/keystone/fields';
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  // Required options
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  // Additional options
  sessionData: 'id name email`,
  initFirstItem: {
    fields: ['email', 'password'],
    itemData: { isAdmin: true },
    skipKeystoneWelcome: false,
  },
  passwordResetLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
  magicAuthLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
});

export default withAuth(
  config({
    lists: createSchema({
      User: list({
        fields: {
          email: text({ isUnique: true }),
          password: password(),
          isAdmin: checkbox(),
        },
      }),
      session: { /* ... */ },
    }),
  })
);
```

The function `createAuth` returns a function `withAuth` which should be used to wrap your `config()`.
This wrapper function will modify the config object to inject extra fields, extra GraphQL queries and mutations, and custom Admin UI functionality into the system.
The `createAuth` function must be used in conjunction with a [session](./session) configuration.

## Required options

The core functionality of the authentication system provides a GraphQL mutation to authenticate a user and then start a session, and a sign in page in the Admin UI.

- `listKey`: The name of the list to authenticate against.
- `identityField`: The name of the field to use as an identity field. This field must have `{ isUnique: true }` set.
- `secretField`: The name of the field to use as a secret. This field must be a `password()` field type.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',
});
```

#### GraphQL API

The following elements will be added to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  authenticateUserWithPassword(email: String!, password: String!): UserAuthenticationWithPasswordResult!
}

type Query {
  authenticatedItem: AuthenticatedItem
}

union AuthenticatedItem = User

union UserAuthenticationWithPasswordResult = UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess | UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure

type UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess {
  sessionToken: String!
  item: User!
}

type UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure {
  code: PasswordAuthErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

enum PasswordAuthErrorCode {
  FAILURE
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND // Unused
  SECRET_NOT_SET // Unused
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES // Unused
  SECRET_MISMATCH // Unused
}
```

##### authenticateUserWithPassword

This mutation will check the supplied credentials and start a new [session](./session) if the credentials are valid.
The argument names for this function are the values of `identityField` and `secretField`.

On success the session handler will start a new session and return the encoded session cookie data as `sessionToken`.
The authenticated item will be returned as `item`.

On failure the values `{ code: FAILURE, message: "Authentication failed." }` will be returned.

##### authenticatedItem

This query will return the currently logged in user, based on the `session` data.

#### Admin UI

A sign in page at the path `/signin` will be added to the Admin UI.
If a user tries to access the Admin UI without having logged in they will be redirected back to `/signin`.
This page uses the `authenticateUserWithPassword` mutation to let users sign in to the Admin UI.

## Additional options

The following options add extra functionality to your Keystone authentication system.
By default they are disabled.

### sessionData

This option adds support for setting a custom `session.data` value based on the authenticated user.

The authentication mutations will set the values `{ listKey, itemId }` on the `context.session` object.
You will often need to know more than just the `itemId` of the authenticated user, such as when performing [access-control](../guides/access-control) or using [hooks](../guides/hooks).
Configuring `sessionData` will add an `session.data` based on the `itemId`, populated by the fields given in `sessionData.query`.

The value is a GraphQL query string which indicates which fields should be populated on the `session.data` object

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',
  sessionData: 'id name isAdmin',
});
```

### initFirstItem

This option adds support for bootstrapping the first user into the system via the Admin UI.
If this option is enabled and there are no users in the system, the Admin UI will present a form to create an initial user in the system.
Once the user is created, they will be presented with a Keystone Welcome screen, and prompted to sign up to the Keystone mailing list to receive updates about the project.

#### Options

- `fields` (required): A list of fields to include in the initial user form.
- `itemData` (default: `{}`): An object containing extra data to add to the initial user.
- `skipKeystoneWelcome` (default: `false`): A flag to skip display of the Keystone Welcome screen.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  initFirstItem: {
    fields: ['email', 'password'],
    itemData: { isAdmin: true },
    skipKeystoneWelcome: false,
  },
});
```

#### GraphQL API

Enabling `initFirstItem` will add the following elements to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  createInitialUser(data: CreateInitialUserInput!): UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess!
}

input CreateInitialUserInput {
  name: String
  email: String
  password: String
}
```

##### createInitialUser

This mutation will create a new user in the system.
If a user already exists an error will be returned.
The available input fields are based on the `fields` options.
This mutation is used by the Admin UI's initial user screen and should generally not be called directly.

#### Admin UI

The initial user screen is added at `/init`, and users are redirected here if there is no active session and no users in the system.

### passwordResetLink

This option adds support for sending password reset links to users.
The mutation `sendUserPasswordResetLink` allows you to send a reset token to a user.
The mutation `redeemUserPasswordResetToken` lets the user reset their password by redeeming the token.
You need to provide a `sendToken` function which can be used by `sendUserPasswordResetLink` to send the generated token to the user.
It is expected that you will use these mutations as part of a password reset workflow within your frontend application.

#### Options

- `sendToken`: This function is invoked by the `sendUserPasswordResetLink` mutation.
  It should use an appropriate mechanism (e.g email, Twitter, Slack, carrier pigeon) to provide the user with the password reset token.
  It should include an appropriate way to submit the token to the `redeemUserPasswordResetToken` mutation (e.g. a link to a password reset form).
  The following arguments are provided to `sendToken`:
  - `itemId`: The ID of the user requesting the password reset.
  - `identity`: The identity value provided to the `sendUserPasswordResetLink` mutation.
  - `token`: The token the user must supply to use `redeemUserPasswordResetToken`.
  - `context`: A [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object.
- `tokensValidForMins` (default: `10`, max: `24 * 60` (1 day), min: `0.16` (10 seconds)): The length of time, in minutes, that the token is valid for.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  passwordResetLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
});
```

#### Additional fields

Enabling `passwordResetLink` will add the following fields to the configuration of the list `listKey`.

```typescript
const fieldConfig = {
  access: () => false,
  ui: {
    createView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    itemView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    listView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
  },
} as const;
const fields = {
  passwordResetToken: password(fieldConfig),
  passwordResetIssuedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
  passwordResetRedeemedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
};
```

- `passwordResetToken` stores the token generated by `sendUserPasswordResetLink`.
- `passwordResetIssuedAt` records the time that the token was generated.
- `passwordResetRedeemedAt` records the time that the token was redeemed.

#### GraphQL API

Enabling `passwordResetLink` will add the following elements to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  sendUserPasswordResetLink(email: String!): SendUserPasswordResetLinkResult
  redeemUserPasswordResetToken(email: String!, token: String!, password: String!): RedeemUserPasswordResetTokenResult
}

type Query {
  validateUserPasswordResetToken(email: String!, token: String!): ValidateUserPasswordResetTokenResult
}

// Unused
type SendUserPasswordResetLinkResult {
  code: PasswordResetRequestErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

// Unused
enum PasswordResetRequestErrorCode {
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES
}

type ValidateUserPasswordResetTokenResult {
  code: PasswordResetRedemptionErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

type RedeemUserPasswordResetTokenResult {
  code: PasswordResetRedemptionErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

enum PasswordResetRedemptionErrorCode {
  FAILURE
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND // Unused
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES // Unused
  TOKEN_NOT_SET // Unused
  TOKEN_MISMATCH // Unused
  TOKEN_EXPIRED
  TOKEN_REDEEMED
}
```

##### sendUserPasswordResetLink

This mutation verifies that the supplied identity exists and, if it does, generates a new token and calls `sendToken()`.
The token and the the current time are stored in the fields `passwordResetToken` and `passwordResetIssuedAt` respectively.
The argument name for this function is the value of `identityField`.
This mutation always returns `null`.

##### redeemUserPasswordResetToken

This mutation validates the provided token and then resets the user's password.
The argument names for this function are the values of `identityField` and `secretField`.
This mutation returns `null` on success.

If the provided `identity` and `token` do not match then the value `{ code: FAILURE, message: 'Auth token redemption failed.'}` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match, but the value of `passwordResetRedeemedAt` on the item is not `null` then the value `{ code: TOKEN_REDEEMED, message: 'Auth tokens are single use and the auth token provided has already been redeemed.' }` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match and the token has not already been redeemed then the value of `passwordResetIssuedAt` is compared against `tokensValidForMins`.
If the token has expired the value `{ code: TOKEN_EXPIRED, message: 'The auth token provided has expired.' }` is returned.

If the token is valid, then the value of `passwordResetRedeemedAt` will be set to the current time, and then the new password value will be saved.
The password will be validated before being saved.
If the password is invalid the token will still be considered as redeemed and the user must restart the password reset flow.
A `ValidationFailureError` will be returned as an `error` if the password is invalid.

If the password is successfully saved then the mutation will return `null`.

##### validateUserPasswordResetToken

This query performs all the same validation steps as `redeemUserPasswordResetToken`, but does not update the password or `passwordResetRedeemedAt` field.
The return values are the same as `redeemUserPasswordResetToken`.

### magicAuthLink

This option adds support for sending a one-time authentication link to users.
One-time authentication links allow a user to start an authenticated session without needing to know their password.
The mutation `sendUserMagicAuthLink` allows you to send a one-time authentication link token to a user.
The mutation `redeemUserMagicAuthToken` lets the user start an authenticated session by redeeming the token.
You need to provide a `sendToken` function which can be used by `sendUserMagicAuthLink` to send the generated token to the user.
It is expected that you will use these mutations as part of a one-time authentication workflow within your frontend application.

#### Options

- `sendToken`: This function is invoked by the `sendUserMagicAuthLink` mutation.
  It should use an appropriate mechanism (e.g email, Twitter, Slack, carrier pigeon) to provide the user with their one-time authentication token.
  It should include an appropriate way to submit the token to the `redeemUserMagicAuthToken` mutation (e.g. a link to a route which executes the mutation on their behalf).
  The following arguments are provided to `sendToken`:
  - `itemId`: The ID of the user requesting the one-time authentication link.
  - `identity`: The identity value provided to the `sendUserMagicAuthLink` mutation.
  - `token`: The token the user must supply to use `redeemUserMagicAuthToken`.
  - `context`: A [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object.
- `tokensValidForMins` (default: `10`, max: `24 * 60` (1 day), min: `0.16` (10 seconds)): The length of time, in minutes, that the token is valid for.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  magicAuthLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
});
```

#### Additional fields

Enabling `magicAuthLink` will add the following fields to the configuration of the list `listKey`.

```typescript
const fieldConfig = {
  access: () => false,
  ui: {
    createView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    itemView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    listView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
  },
} as const;
const fields = {
  magicAuthToken: password(fieldConfig),
  magicAuthIssuedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
  magicAuthRedeemedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
};
```

- `magicAuthToken` stores the token generated by `sendUserMagicAuthLink`.
- `magicAuthIssuedAt` records the time that the token was generated.
- `magicAuthRedeemedAt` records the time that the token was redeemed.

#### GraphQL API

Enabling `magicAuthLink` will add the following elements to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  sendUserMagicAuthLink(email: String!): SendUserMagicAuthLinkResult
  redeemUserMagicAuthToken(email: String!, token: String!): RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenResult!
}

// Unused
type SendUserMagicAuthLinkResult {
  code: MagicLinkRequestErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

// Unused
enum MagicLinkRequestErrorCode {
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES
}

union RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenResult = RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenSuccess | RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenFailure

type RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenSuccess {
  token: String!
  item: User!
}

type RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenFailure {
  code: MagicLinkRedemptionErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

enum MagicLinkRedemptionErrorCode {
  FAILURE
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND // Unused
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES // Unused
  TOKEN_NOT_SET // Unused
  TOKEN_MISMATCH // Unused
  TOKEN_EXPIRED
  TOKEN_REDEEMED
}
```

##### sendUserMagicAuthLink

This mutation verifies that the supplied identity exists and, if it does, generates a new token and calls `sendToken()`.
The token and the the current time are stored in the fields `magicAuthToken` and `magicAuthIssuedAt` respectively.
The argument name for this function is the value of `identityField`.
This mutation always returns `null`.

##### redeemUserMagicAuthToken

This mutation validates the provided token and then starts an authenticated session as the identified user.
The argument name for this function is the value of `identityField`.

If the provided `identity` and `token` do not match then the value `{ code: FAILURE, message: 'Auth token redemption failed.'}` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match, but the value of `magicAuthRedeemedAt` on the item is not `null` then the value `{ code: TOKEN_REDEEMED, message: 'Auth tokens are single use and the auth token provided has already been redeemed.' }` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match and the token has not already been redeemed then the value of `magicAuthRedeemedAt` is compared against `tokensValidForMins`.
If the token has expired the value `{ code: TOKEN_EXPIRED, message: 'The auth token provided has expired.' }` is returned.

If the token is valid then the session handler will start a new session and return the encoded session cookie data as `sessionToken`.
The authenticated item will be returned as `item`.

## Related resources

<RelatedContent>
  <Well
    heading="Example Project: Authentication"
    href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples/with-auth"
    >
    Adds password-based authentication to the Task Manager starter project.
  </Well>
</RelatedContent>

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="API reference for supporting authentication against a password field using the createAuth() function in the `@keystone-next/auth` package.">{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Change isUnique: true to isIndexed: 'unique' in fields

docs/pages/docs/apis/auth.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';
import { Well } from '../../../components/primitives/Well';
import { RelatedContent } from '../../../components/RelatedContent';

# Authentication API

Keystone allows you to extend your Keystone system to support authentication against a `password` field using the `createAuth()` function in the `@keystone-next/auth` package.
Additional options to this function provide support for creating an initial item in your database, sending password reset tokens, and sending one-time authentication tokens.

For examples of how to use authentication in your system please see the [authentication guide](../guides/auth).

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';
import { text, password, checkbox } from '@keystone-next/keystone/fields';
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  // Required options
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  // Additional options
  sessionData: 'id name email`,
  initFirstItem: {
    fields: ['email', 'password'],
    itemData: { isAdmin: true },
    skipKeystoneWelcome: false,
  },
  passwordResetLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
  magicAuthLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
});

export default withAuth(
  config({
    lists: createSchema({
      User: list({
        fields: {
          email: text({ isIndexed: 'unique', isFilterable: true }),
          password: password(),
          isAdmin: checkbox(),
        },
      }),
      session: { /* ... */ },
    }),
  })
);
```

The function `createAuth` returns a function `withAuth` which should be used to wrap your `config()`.
This wrapper function will modify the config object to inject extra fields, extra GraphQL queries and mutations, and custom Admin UI functionality into the system.
The `createAuth` function must be used in conjunction with a [session](./session) configuration.

## Required options

The core functionality of the authentication system provides a GraphQL mutation to authenticate a user and then start a session, and a sign in page in the Admin UI.

- `listKey`: The name of the list to authenticate against.
- `identityField`: The name of the field to use as an identity field. This field must have `{ isIndexed: 'unique', isFilterable: true }` set.
- `secretField`: The name of the field to use as a secret. This field must be a `password()` field type.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',
});
```

#### GraphQL API

The following elements will be added to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  authenticateUserWithPassword(email: String!, password: String!): UserAuthenticationWithPasswordResult!
}

type Query {
  authenticatedItem: AuthenticatedItem
}

union AuthenticatedItem = User

union UserAuthenticationWithPasswordResult = UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess | UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure

type UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess {
  sessionToken: String!
  item: User!
}

type UserAuthenticationWithPasswordFailure {
  code: PasswordAuthErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

enum PasswordAuthErrorCode {
  FAILURE
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND // Unused
  SECRET_NOT_SET // Unused
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES // Unused
  SECRET_MISMATCH // Unused
}
```

##### authenticateUserWithPassword

This mutation will check the supplied credentials and start a new [session](./session) if the credentials are valid.
The argument names for this function are the values of `identityField` and `secretField`.

On success the session handler will start a new session and return the encoded session cookie data as `sessionToken`.
The authenticated item will be returned as `item`.

On failure the values `{ code: FAILURE, message: "Authentication failed." }` will be returned.

##### authenticatedItem

This query will return the currently logged in user, based on the `session` data.

#### Admin UI

A sign in page at the path `/signin` will be added to the Admin UI.
If a user tries to access the Admin UI without having logged in they will be redirected back to `/signin`.
This page uses the `authenticateUserWithPassword` mutation to let users sign in to the Admin UI.

## Additional options

The following options add extra functionality to your Keystone authentication system.
By default they are disabled.

### sessionData

This option adds support for setting a custom `session.data` value based on the authenticated user.

The authentication mutations will set the values `{ listKey, itemId }` on the `context.session` object.
You will often need to know more than just the `itemId` of the authenticated user, such as when performing [access-control](../guides/access-control) or using [hooks](../guides/hooks).
Configuring `sessionData` will add an `session.data` based on the `itemId`, populated by the fields given in `sessionData.query`.

The value is a GraphQL query string which indicates which fields should be populated on the `session.data` object

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',
  sessionData: 'id name isAdmin',
});
```

### initFirstItem

This option adds support for bootstrapping the first user into the system via the Admin UI.
If this option is enabled and there are no users in the system, the Admin UI will present a form to create an initial user in the system.
Once the user is created, they will be presented with a Keystone Welcome screen, and prompted to sign up to the Keystone mailing list to receive updates about the project.

#### Options

- `fields` (required): A list of fields to include in the initial user form.
- `itemData` (default: `{}`): An object containing extra data to add to the initial user.
- `skipKeystoneWelcome` (default: `false`): A flag to skip display of the Keystone Welcome screen.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  initFirstItem: {
    fields: ['email', 'password'],
    itemData: { isAdmin: true },
    skipKeystoneWelcome: false,
  },
});
```

#### GraphQL API

Enabling `initFirstItem` will add the following elements to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  createInitialUser(data: CreateInitialUserInput!): UserAuthenticationWithPasswordSuccess!
}

input CreateInitialUserInput {
  name: String
  email: String
  password: String
}
```

##### createInitialUser

This mutation will create a new user in the system.
If a user already exists an error will be returned.
The available input fields are based on the `fields` options.
This mutation is used by the Admin UI's initial user screen and should generally not be called directly.

#### Admin UI

The initial user screen is added at `/init`, and users are redirected here if there is no active session and no users in the system.

### passwordResetLink

This option adds support for sending password reset links to users.
The mutation `sendUserPasswordResetLink` allows you to send a reset token to a user.
The mutation `redeemUserPasswordResetToken` lets the user reset their password by redeeming the token.
You need to provide a `sendToken` function which can be used by `sendUserPasswordResetLink` to send the generated token to the user.
It is expected that you will use these mutations as part of a password reset workflow within your frontend application.

#### Options

- `sendToken`: This function is invoked by the `sendUserPasswordResetLink` mutation.
  It should use an appropriate mechanism (e.g email, Twitter, Slack, carrier pigeon) to provide the user with the password reset token.
  It should include an appropriate way to submit the token to the `redeemUserPasswordResetToken` mutation (e.g. a link to a password reset form).
  The following arguments are provided to `sendToken`:
  - `itemId`: The ID of the user requesting the password reset.
  - `identity`: The identity value provided to the `sendUserPasswordResetLink` mutation.
  - `token`: The token the user must supply to use `redeemUserPasswordResetToken`.
  - `context`: A [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object.
- `tokensValidForMins` (default: `10`, max: `24 * 60` (1 day), min: `0.16` (10 seconds)): The length of time, in minutes, that the token is valid for.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  passwordResetLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
});
```

#### Additional fields

Enabling `passwordResetLink` will add the following fields to the configuration of the list `listKey`.

```typescript
const fieldConfig = {
  access: () => false,
  ui: {
    createView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    itemView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    listView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
  },
} as const;
const fields = {
  passwordResetToken: password(fieldConfig),
  passwordResetIssuedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
  passwordResetRedeemedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
};
```

- `passwordResetToken` stores the token generated by `sendUserPasswordResetLink`.
- `passwordResetIssuedAt` records the time that the token was generated.
- `passwordResetRedeemedAt` records the time that the token was redeemed.

#### GraphQL API

Enabling `passwordResetLink` will add the following elements to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  sendUserPasswordResetLink(email: String!): SendUserPasswordResetLinkResult
  redeemUserPasswordResetToken(email: String!, token: String!, password: String!): RedeemUserPasswordResetTokenResult
}

type Query {
  validateUserPasswordResetToken(email: String!, token: String!): ValidateUserPasswordResetTokenResult
}

// Unused
type SendUserPasswordResetLinkResult {
  code: PasswordResetRequestErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

// Unused
enum PasswordResetRequestErrorCode {
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES
}

type ValidateUserPasswordResetTokenResult {
  code: PasswordResetRedemptionErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

type RedeemUserPasswordResetTokenResult {
  code: PasswordResetRedemptionErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

enum PasswordResetRedemptionErrorCode {
  FAILURE
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND // Unused
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES // Unused
  TOKEN_NOT_SET // Unused
  TOKEN_MISMATCH // Unused
  TOKEN_EXPIRED
  TOKEN_REDEEMED
}
```

##### sendUserPasswordResetLink

This mutation verifies that the supplied identity exists and, if it does, generates a new token and calls `sendToken()`.
The token and the the current time are stored in the fields `passwordResetToken` and `passwordResetIssuedAt` respectively.
The argument name for this function is the value of `identityField`.
This mutation always returns `null`.

##### redeemUserPasswordResetToken

This mutation validates the provided token and then resets the user's password.
The argument names for this function are the values of `identityField` and `secretField`.
This mutation returns `null` on success.

If the provided `identity` and `token` do not match then the value `{ code: FAILURE, message: 'Auth token redemption failed.'}` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match, but the value of `passwordResetRedeemedAt` on the item is not `null` then the value `{ code: TOKEN_REDEEMED, message: 'Auth tokens are single use and the auth token provided has already been redeemed.' }` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match and the token has not already been redeemed then the value of `passwordResetIssuedAt` is compared against `tokensValidForMins`.
If the token has expired the value `{ code: TOKEN_EXPIRED, message: 'The auth token provided has expired.' }` is returned.

If the token is valid, then the value of `passwordResetRedeemedAt` will be set to the current time, and then the new password value will be saved.
The password will be validated before being saved.
If the password is invalid the token will still be considered as redeemed and the user must restart the password reset flow.
A `ValidationFailureError` will be returned as an `error` if the password is invalid.

If the password is successfully saved then the mutation will return `null`.

##### validateUserPasswordResetToken

This query performs all the same validation steps as `redeemUserPasswordResetToken`, but does not update the password or `passwordResetRedeemedAt` field.
The return values are the same as `redeemUserPasswordResetToken`.

### magicAuthLink

This option adds support for sending a one-time authentication link to users.
One-time authentication links allow a user to start an authenticated session without needing to know their password.
The mutation `sendUserMagicAuthLink` allows you to send a one-time authentication link token to a user.
The mutation `redeemUserMagicAuthToken` lets the user start an authenticated session by redeeming the token.
You need to provide a `sendToken` function which can be used by `sendUserMagicAuthLink` to send the generated token to the user.
It is expected that you will use these mutations as part of a one-time authentication workflow within your frontend application.

#### Options

- `sendToken`: This function is invoked by the `sendUserMagicAuthLink` mutation.
  It should use an appropriate mechanism (e.g email, Twitter, Slack, carrier pigeon) to provide the user with their one-time authentication token.
  It should include an appropriate way to submit the token to the `redeemUserMagicAuthToken` mutation (e.g. a link to a route which executes the mutation on their behalf).
  The following arguments are provided to `sendToken`:
  - `itemId`: The ID of the user requesting the one-time authentication link.
  - `identity`: The identity value provided to the `sendUserMagicAuthLink` mutation.
  - `token`: The token the user must supply to use `redeemUserMagicAuthToken`.
  - `context`: A [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object.
- `tokensValidForMins` (default: `10`, max: `24 * 60` (1 day), min: `0.16` (10 seconds)): The length of time, in minutes, that the token is valid for.

```typescript
import { createAuth } from '@keystone-next/auth';

const { withAuth } = createAuth({
  listKey: 'User',
  identityField: 'email',
  secretField: 'password',

  magicAuthLink: {
    sendToken: async ({ itemId, identity, token, context }) => { /* ... */ },
    tokensValidForMins: 60,
  },
});
```

#### Additional fields

Enabling `magicAuthLink` will add the following fields to the configuration of the list `listKey`.

```typescript
const fieldConfig = {
  access: () => false,
  ui: {
    createView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    itemView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
    listView: { fieldMode: 'hidden' },
  },
} as const;
const fields = {
  magicAuthToken: password(fieldConfig),
  magicAuthIssuedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
  magicAuthRedeemedAt: timestamp(fieldConfig),
};
```

- `magicAuthToken` stores the token generated by `sendUserMagicAuthLink`.
- `magicAuthIssuedAt` records the time that the token was generated.
- `magicAuthRedeemedAt` records the time that the token was redeemed.

#### GraphQL API

Enabling `magicAuthLink` will add the following elements to the GraphQL API.

```graphql
type Mutation {
  sendUserMagicAuthLink(email: String!): SendUserMagicAuthLinkResult
  redeemUserMagicAuthToken(email: String!, token: String!): RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenResult!
}

// Unused
type SendUserMagicAuthLinkResult {
  code: MagicLinkRequestErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

// Unused
enum MagicLinkRequestErrorCode {
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES
}

union RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenResult = RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenSuccess | RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenFailure

type RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenSuccess {
  token: String!
  item: User!
}

type RedeemUserMagicAuthTokenFailure {
  code: MagicLinkRedemptionErrorCode!
  message: String!
}

enum MagicLinkRedemptionErrorCode {
  FAILURE
  IDENTITY_NOT_FOUND // Unused
  MULTIPLE_IDENTITY_MATCHES // Unused
  TOKEN_NOT_SET // Unused
  TOKEN_MISMATCH // Unused
  TOKEN_EXPIRED
  TOKEN_REDEEMED
}
```

##### sendUserMagicAuthLink

This mutation verifies that the supplied identity exists and, if it does, generates a new token and calls `sendToken()`.
The token and the the current time are stored in the fields `magicAuthToken` and `magicAuthIssuedAt` respectively.
The argument name for this function is the value of `identityField`.
This mutation always returns `null`.

##### redeemUserMagicAuthToken

This mutation validates the provided token and then starts an authenticated session as the identified user.
The argument name for this function is the value of `identityField`.

If the provided `identity` and `token` do not match then the value `{ code: FAILURE, message: 'Auth token redemption failed.'}` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match, but the value of `magicAuthRedeemedAt` on the item is not `null` then the value `{ code: TOKEN_REDEEMED, message: 'Auth tokens are single use and the auth token provided has already been redeemed.' }` is returned.

If the `identity` and `token` values match and the token has not already been redeemed then the value of `magicAuthRedeemedAt` is compared against `tokensValidForMins`.
If the token has expired the value `{ code: TOKEN_EXPIRED, message: 'The auth token provided has expired.' }` is returned.

If the token is valid then the session handler will start a new session and return the encoded session cookie data as `sessionToken`.
The authenticated item will be returned as `item`.

## Related resources

<RelatedContent>
  <Well
    heading="Example Project: Authentication"
    href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples/with-auth"
    >
    Adds password-based authentication to the Task Manager starter project.
  </Well>
</RelatedContent>

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="API reference for supporting authentication against a password field using the createAuth() function in the `@keystone-next/auth` package.">{children}</Markdown>;
