docs/pages/docs/apis/graphql.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';

# GraphQL API

Keystone generates a CRUD (create, read, update, delete) GraphQL API based on the [schema](./schema) definition provided in the system [config](./config).

Consider the following system definition:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({ fields: { name: text() } }),
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

This system will generate the following GraphQL API.

**Note:** The names and types of the generated queries and mutations are based on the names of the lists and fields in the system config.

```graphql
type Query {
  users(
    where: UserWhereInput! = {}
    orderBy: [UserOrderByInput!]! = []
    take: Int
    skip: Int! = 0
  ): [User!]
  user(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
  usersCount(where: UserWhereInput! = {}): Int
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

input UserWhereInput {
  AND: [UserWhereInput!]
  OR: [UserWhereInput!]
  NOT: [UserWhereInput!]
  id: IDFilter
  name: StringNullableFilter
}

input IDFilter {
  equals: ID
  in: [ID!]
  notIn: [ID!]
  lt: ID
  lte: ID
  gt: ID
  gte: ID
  not: IDFilter
}

input StringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  mode: QueryMode
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

enum QueryMode {
  default
  insensitive
}

input NestedStringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

input UserOrderByInput {
  id: OrderDirection
  name: OrderDirection
}

enum OrderDirection {
  asc
  desc
}

type Mutation {
  createUser(data: UserCreateInput!): User
  createUsers(data: [UserCreateInput!]!): [User]
  updateUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!, data: UserUpdateInput!): User
  updateUsers(data: [UserUpdateArgs!]!): [User]
  deleteUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
  deleteUsers(where: [UserWhereUniqueInput!]!): [User]
}

input UserUpdateInput {
  name: String
}

input UserUpdateArgs {
  where: UserWhereUniqueInput!
  data: UserUpdateInput!
}

input UserCreateInput {
  name: String
}
```

## Queries

### user

```graphql
type Query {
  user(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}
```

### users

```graphql
type Query {
  users(
    where: UserWhereInput! = {}
    orderBy: [UserOrderByInput!]! = []
    take: Int
    skip: Int! = 0
  ): [User!]
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

input UserWhereInput {
  AND: [UserWhereInput!]
  OR: [UserWhereInput!]
  NOT: [UserWhereInput!]
  id: IDFilter
  name: StringNullableFilter
}

input IDFilter {
  equals: ID
  in: [ID!]
  notIn: [ID!]
  lt: ID
  lte: ID
  gt: ID
  gte: ID
  not: IDFilter
}

input StringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  mode: QueryMode
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

enum QueryMode {
  default
  insensitive
}

input NestedStringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

input UserOrderByInput {
  id: OrderDirection
  name: OrderDirection
}

enum OrderDirection {
  asc
  desc
}
```

### usersCount

```graphql
type Query {
  usersCount(where: UserWhereInput! = {}): Int
}

input UserWhereInput {
  AND: [UserWhereInput!]
  OR: [UserWhereInput!]
  NOT: [UserWhereInput!]
  id: IDFilter
  name: StringNullableFilter
}

input IDFilter {
  equals: ID
  in: [ID!]
  notIn: [ID!]
  lt: ID
  lte: ID
  gt: ID
  gte: ID
  not: IDFilter
}

input StringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  mode: QueryMode
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

enum QueryMode {
  default
  insensitive
}

input NestedStringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}
```

## Mutations

### createUser

```graphql
type Mutation {
  createUser(data: UserCreateInput!): User
}

input UserCreateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### createUsers

```graphql
type Mutation {
  createUsers(data: [UserCreateInput!]!): [User]
}

input UserCreateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### updateUser

```graphql
type Mutation {
  updateUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!, data: UserUpdateInput!): User
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

input UserUpdateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### updateUsers

```graphql
type Mutation {
  updateUsers(data: [UserUpdateArgs!]!): [User]
}

input UserUpdateArgs {
  where: UserWhereUniqueInput!
  data: UserUpdateInput!
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

input UserUpdateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### deleteUser

```graphql
type Mutation {
  deleteUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### deleteUsers

```graphql
type Mutation {
  deleteUsers(ids: [UserWhereUniqueInput!]!): [User]
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Reference docs for Keystone’s CRUD (create, read, update, delete) GraphQL API. Based on the schema definitions outlined in your system config.">{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Added upgrade notices to GraphQL API related pages (#6387)

docs/pages/docs/apis/graphql.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';

# GraphQL API

?> We recently improved this API so it’s easier to program and reason about. If you were using it prior to August 17th 2021, [read this guide](/updates/new-graphql-api) for info on how to upgrade.

Keystone generates a CRUD (create, read, update, delete) GraphQL API based on the [schema](./schema) definition provided in the system [config](./config).

Consider the following system definition:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({ fields: { name: text() } }),
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

This system will generate the following GraphQL API.

**Note:** The names and types of the generated queries and mutations are based on the names of the lists and fields in the system config.

```graphql
type Query {
  users(
    where: UserWhereInput! = {}
    orderBy: [UserOrderByInput!]! = []
    take: Int
    skip: Int! = 0
  ): [User!]
  user(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
  usersCount(where: UserWhereInput! = {}): Int
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

input UserWhereInput {
  AND: [UserWhereInput!]
  OR: [UserWhereInput!]
  NOT: [UserWhereInput!]
  id: IDFilter
  name: StringNullableFilter
}

input IDFilter {
  equals: ID
  in: [ID!]
  notIn: [ID!]
  lt: ID
  lte: ID
  gt: ID
  gte: ID
  not: IDFilter
}

input StringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  mode: QueryMode
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

enum QueryMode {
  default
  insensitive
}

input NestedStringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

input UserOrderByInput {
  id: OrderDirection
  name: OrderDirection
}

enum OrderDirection {
  asc
  desc
}

type Mutation {
  createUser(data: UserCreateInput!): User
  createUsers(data: [UserCreateInput!]!): [User]
  updateUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!, data: UserUpdateInput!): User
  updateUsers(data: [UserUpdateArgs!]!): [User]
  deleteUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
  deleteUsers(where: [UserWhereUniqueInput!]!): [User]
}

input UserUpdateInput {
  name: String
}

input UserUpdateArgs {
  where: UserWhereUniqueInput!
  data: UserUpdateInput!
}

input UserCreateInput {
  name: String
}
```

## Queries

### user

```graphql
type Query {
  user(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}
```

### users

```graphql
type Query {
  users(
    where: UserWhereInput! = {}
    orderBy: [UserOrderByInput!]! = []
    take: Int
    skip: Int! = 0
  ): [User!]
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

input UserWhereInput {
  AND: [UserWhereInput!]
  OR: [UserWhereInput!]
  NOT: [UserWhereInput!]
  id: IDFilter
  name: StringNullableFilter
}

input IDFilter {
  equals: ID
  in: [ID!]
  notIn: [ID!]
  lt: ID
  lte: ID
  gt: ID
  gte: ID
  not: IDFilter
}

input StringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  mode: QueryMode
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

enum QueryMode {
  default
  insensitive
}

input NestedStringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

input UserOrderByInput {
  id: OrderDirection
  name: OrderDirection
}

enum OrderDirection {
  asc
  desc
}
```

### usersCount

```graphql
type Query {
  usersCount(where: UserWhereInput! = {}): Int
}

input UserWhereInput {
  AND: [UserWhereInput!]
  OR: [UserWhereInput!]
  NOT: [UserWhereInput!]
  id: IDFilter
  name: StringNullableFilter
}

input IDFilter {
  equals: ID
  in: [ID!]
  notIn: [ID!]
  lt: ID
  lte: ID
  gt: ID
  gte: ID
  not: IDFilter
}

input StringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  mode: QueryMode
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}

enum QueryMode {
  default
  insensitive
}

input NestedStringNullableFilter {
  equals: String
  in: [String!]
  notIn: [String!]
  lt: String
  lte: String
  gt: String
  gte: String
  contains: String
  startsWith: String
  endsWith: String
  not: NestedStringNullableFilter
}
```

## Mutations

### createUser

```graphql
type Mutation {
  createUser(data: UserCreateInput!): User
}

input UserCreateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### createUsers

```graphql
type Mutation {
  createUsers(data: [UserCreateInput!]!): [User]
}

input UserCreateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### updateUser

```graphql
type Mutation {
  updateUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!, data: UserUpdateInput!): User
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

input UserUpdateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### updateUsers

```graphql
type Mutation {
  updateUsers(data: [UserUpdateArgs!]!): [User]
}

input UserUpdateArgs {
  where: UserWhereUniqueInput!
  data: UserUpdateInput!
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

input UserUpdateInput {
  name: String
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### deleteUser

```graphql
type Mutation {
  deleteUser(where: UserWhereUniqueInput!): User
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

### deleteUsers

```graphql
type Mutation {
  deleteUsers(ids: [UserWhereUniqueInput!]!): [User]
}

input UserWhereUniqueInput {
  id: ID
}

type User {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}
```

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Reference docs for Keystone’s CRUD (create, read, update, delete) GraphQL API. Based on the schema definitions outlined in your system config.">{children}</Markdown>;
