docs/pages/docs/apis/schema.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';
import { Well } from '../../../components/primitives/Well';
import { RelatedContent } from '../../../components/RelatedContent';

# Schema API

The `lists` property of the [system configuration](./config) object is where you define the data model, or schema, of your Keystone system.
To setup the `lists` property of the system configuration you need to use the `createSchema()` function.
This function accepts an object with list names as keys, and `list()` configurations as values.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: { /* ... */ },
      access: { /* ... */ },
      ui: { /* ... */ },
      hooks: { /* ... */ },
      graphql: { /* ... */ },
      db: { /* ... */ },
      description: '...',
      defaultIsFilterable: true,
      defaultIsOrderable: true,
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

This document will explain the configuration options which can be used with the `list()` function.

Options:

- `defaultIsFilterable`: If `true`, all fields will be filterable by default. They can override this by setting the field level `isFilterable` option to `false`.
- `defaultIsOrderable`: If `true`, all fields will be orderable by default. They can override this by setting the field level `isOrderable` option to `false`.

## fields

The `fields` option defines the names, types, and configuration of the fields in the list.
This configuration option takes an object with field names as keys, and configured field types as values.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/keystone/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: text({ /* ... */ }),
        /* ... */
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

For full details on the available field types and their configuration options please see the [Fields API](./fields).

## access

The `access` option defines the [Access Control](../guides/access-control) rules for the list.
These rules determine which of the CRUD (create, read, update, delete) operations users are allowed to perform.

See the [Access Control API](./access-control) for full details on the available access control options.

## ui

The `ui` option controls how the list is displayed and interacted with in the Admin UI.

Options:

- `labelField`: Selects the field which will be used as the label column in the Admin UI.
  By default looks for a field called `'label'`, then falls back to `'name'`, then `'title'`, and finally `'id'`, which is guaranteed to exist.
- `searchFields`: The fields used by the Admin UI when searching this list.
  It is always possible to search by an id and `'id'` should not be specified in this option.
  By default, the `labelField` is used if it has a string `contains` filter, otherwise none.
- `description` (default: `undefined`): Sets the list description displayed in the Admin UI.
- `isHidden` (default: `false`): Controls whether the list is visible in the navigation elements of the Admin UI.
  Can be either a boolean value, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns a boolean value.
- `hideCreate` (default: `false`): Controls whether the `create` button is available in the Admin UI for this list.
  Can be either a boolean value, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns a boolean value.
- `hideDelete` (default: `false`): Controls whether the `delete` button is available in the Admin UI for this list.
  Can be either a boolean value, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns a boolean value.
- `createView`: Controls the create view page of the Admin UI.
  - `defaultFieldMode` (default: `'edit'`):
    Can be overridden by per-field values in the `field.ui.createView.fieldMode` config.
    See the [Fields API](./fields#common-configuration) for details.
    Can be one of `['edit', 'hidden']`, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns one of `['edit', 'hidden']`.
- `itemView`: Controls the item view page of the Admin UI.
  - `defaultFieldMode` (default: `'edit'`):
    Can be overridden by per-field values in the `field.ui.itemView.fieldMode` config.
    See the [Fields API](./fields#common-configuration) for details.
    Can be one of `['edit', 'read', 'hidden']`, or an async function with an argument `{ session, item }` that returns one of `['edit', 'read', 'hidden']`.
- `listView`: Controls the list view page of the Admin UI.
  - `defaultFieldMode` (default: `'read'`): Controls the default mode of fields in the list view.
    Can be overridden by per-field values in the `field.ui.listView.fieldMode` config.
    See the [Fields API](./fields#common-configuration) for details.
    Can be one of `['read', 'hidden']`, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns one of `['read', 'hidden']`.
  - `initialColumns` (default: The first three fields defined in the list). A list of field names to display in columns in the list view. By default only the label column, as determined by `labelField`, is shown.
  - `initialSort` (default: `undefined`): Sets the field and direction to be used to initially sort the data in the list view.
    Option `field` is the name of the field to sort by, and `direction` is either `'ASC'` or `'DESC'` for ascending and descending sorting respectively.
    If undefined then data will be unsorted.
  - `pageSize` (default: `50`): Sets the number of items to show per page in the list view.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/keystone/fields`;

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: { name: text({ /* ... */ }) },
      ui: {
        labelField: 'name',
        searchFields: ['name', 'alternativeName'],
        description: '...',
        isHidden: ({ session }) => false,
        hideCreate: ({ session }) => false,
        hideDelete: ({ session }) => false,
        createView: {
          defaultFieldMode: ({ session }) => 'edit',
        },
        itemView: {
          defaultFieldMode: ({ session, item }) => 'edit',
        },
        listView: {
          defaultFieldMode: ({ session }) => 'read',
          initialColumns: ['name', /* ... */],
          initialSort: { field: 'name', direction: 'ASC' },
          pageSize: 50,
        },
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## hooks

The `hooks` option defines [hook](../guides/hooks) functions for the list.
Hooks allow you to execute code at different stages of the mutation lifecycle.

See the [Hooks API](./hooks) for full details on the available hook options.

## graphql

The `graphql` config option allows you to configures certain aspects of the GraphQL API.

Options:

- `description` (default: `undefined`): Sets the description of the associated GraphQL type in the generated GraphQL API documentation.
  Overrides the list-level `description` config option.
- `plural`: (default: Pluralised list key, e.g. `'Users'`): Overrides the name used in multiple mutations and queries (e.g. `allUsers`, `updateUsers`, etc).
- `queryLimits` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to limit the number of results returned from a query to this list in the GraphQL API.
  See also the global `graphql.queryLimits` option in the [System Configuration API](./config).
- `cacheHint` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to specific the [dynamic cache control hints](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/caching/#in-your-resolvers-dynamic) used for queries to this this list.
- `isEnabled` (default: `true`): Allows you to configure which parts of the CRUD API are autogenerated for your GraphQL API.
  This option accepts either a boolean or an object value.
  If you provide an object value and specify `false` for any of the `query`, `create`, `update`, or `delete` options, the corresponding operations will be excluded from the GraphQL API.
  If you specify a boolean value of `false` then the entire list, including its output type, will be excluded from the GraphQL API.

```typescript
import { CacheScope } from 'apollo-cache-control';
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      graphql: {
        description: '...',
        itemQueryName: '...',
        listQueryName: '...',
        queryLimits: { maxResults: 100 },
        cacheHint: { maxAge: 60, scope: CacheScope.Private },
        isEnabled: {
          query: false,
          create: true,
          update: true,
          delete: true,
        }
      },
      /* ... */
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## db

The `db` config option allows you to configures certain aspects of the database connection specific to this list.

Options:

- `idField` (default: `{ kind: "cuid" }`): The kind of id field to use, it can be one of: `cuid`, `uuid` or `autoincrement`.
  The default across all lists can be changed at the root-level `db.idField` config.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      db: {
        idField: { kind: 'uuid' },
      },
      /* ... */
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## description

The `description` option defines a string which will be used as a description in the Admin UI and GraphQL API docs.
This option can be individually overridden by the `graphql.description` or `ui.description` options.

## Related resources

<RelatedContent>
  <Well
    heading="Fields API Reference"
    href="/docs/apis/fields"
    >
    Defines the names, types, and configuration of Keystone fields. See all the fields and the configuration options they accept.
  </Well>
  <Well
    heading="Config API Reference"
    href="/docs/apis/config"
    >
    The API to configure all the parts parts of your Keystone system.
  </Well>
  <Well
    heading="Example Project: Blog"
    href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples/blog"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer"
    >
    A basic Blog schema with Posts and Authors. Use this as a starting place for learning how to use Keystone. It’s also a starter for other feature projects.
  </Well>
</RelatedContent>

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Reference docs for Keystone’s Schema API, which defines the data model of your system.">{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Replace graphql.isEnabled with graphql.omit

docs/pages/docs/apis/schema.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';
import { Well } from '../../../components/primitives/Well';
import { RelatedContent } from '../../../components/RelatedContent';

# Schema API

The `lists` property of the [system configuration](./config) object is where you define the data model, or schema, of your Keystone system.
To setup the `lists` property of the system configuration you need to use the `createSchema()` function.
This function accepts an object with list names as keys, and `list()` configurations as values.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: { /* ... */ },
      access: { /* ... */ },
      ui: { /* ... */ },
      hooks: { /* ... */ },
      graphql: { /* ... */ },
      db: { /* ... */ },
      description: '...',
      defaultIsFilterable: true,
      defaultIsOrderable: true,
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

This document will explain the configuration options which can be used with the `list()` function.

Options:

- `defaultIsFilterable`: If `true`, all fields will be filterable by default. They can override this by setting the field level `isFilterable` option to `false`.
- `defaultIsOrderable`: If `true`, all fields will be orderable by default. They can override this by setting the field level `isOrderable` option to `false`.

## fields

The `fields` option defines the names, types, and configuration of the fields in the list.
This configuration option takes an object with field names as keys, and configured field types as values.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/keystone/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: text({ /* ... */ }),
        /* ... */
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

For full details on the available field types and their configuration options please see the [Fields API](./fields).

## access

The `access` option defines the [Access Control](../guides/access-control) rules for the list.
These rules determine which of the CRUD (create, read, update, delete) operations users are allowed to perform.

See the [Access Control API](./access-control) for full details on the available access control options.

## ui

The `ui` option controls how the list is displayed and interacted with in the Admin UI.

Options:

- `labelField`: Selects the field which will be used as the label column in the Admin UI.
  By default looks for a field called `'label'`, then falls back to `'name'`, then `'title'`, and finally `'id'`, which is guaranteed to exist.
- `searchFields`: The fields used by the Admin UI when searching this list.
  It is always possible to search by an id and `'id'` should not be specified in this option.
  By default, the `labelField` is used if it has a string `contains` filter, otherwise none.
- `description` (default: `undefined`): Sets the list description displayed in the Admin UI.
- `isHidden` (default: `false`): Controls whether the list is visible in the navigation elements of the Admin UI.
  Can be either a boolean value, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns a boolean value.
- `hideCreate` (default: `false`): Controls whether the `create` button is available in the Admin UI for this list.
  Can be either a boolean value, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns a boolean value.
- `hideDelete` (default: `false`): Controls whether the `delete` button is available in the Admin UI for this list.
  Can be either a boolean value, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns a boolean value.
- `createView`: Controls the create view page of the Admin UI.
  - `defaultFieldMode` (default: `'edit'`):
    Can be overridden by per-field values in the `field.ui.createView.fieldMode` config.
    See the [Fields API](./fields#common-configuration) for details.
    Can be one of `['edit', 'hidden']`, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns one of `['edit', 'hidden']`.
- `itemView`: Controls the item view page of the Admin UI.
  - `defaultFieldMode` (default: `'edit'`):
    Can be overridden by per-field values in the `field.ui.itemView.fieldMode` config.
    See the [Fields API](./fields#common-configuration) for details.
    Can be one of `['edit', 'read', 'hidden']`, or an async function with an argument `{ session, item }` that returns one of `['edit', 'read', 'hidden']`.
- `listView`: Controls the list view page of the Admin UI.
  - `defaultFieldMode` (default: `'read'`): Controls the default mode of fields in the list view.
    Can be overridden by per-field values in the `field.ui.listView.fieldMode` config.
    See the [Fields API](./fields#common-configuration) for details.
    Can be one of `['read', 'hidden']`, or an async function with an argument `{ session }` that returns one of `['read', 'hidden']`.
  - `initialColumns` (default: The first three fields defined in the list). A list of field names to display in columns in the list view. By default only the label column, as determined by `labelField`, is shown.
  - `initialSort` (default: `undefined`): Sets the field and direction to be used to initially sort the data in the list view.
    Option `field` is the name of the field to sort by, and `direction` is either `'ASC'` or `'DESC'` for ascending and descending sorting respectively.
    If undefined then data will be unsorted.
  - `pageSize` (default: `50`): Sets the number of items to show per page in the list view.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/keystone/fields`;

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: { name: text({ /* ... */ }) },
      ui: {
        labelField: 'name',
        searchFields: ['name', 'alternativeName'],
        description: '...',
        isHidden: ({ session }) => false,
        hideCreate: ({ session }) => false,
        hideDelete: ({ session }) => false,
        createView: {
          defaultFieldMode: ({ session }) => 'edit',
        },
        itemView: {
          defaultFieldMode: ({ session, item }) => 'edit',
        },
        listView: {
          defaultFieldMode: ({ session }) => 'read',
          initialColumns: ['name', /* ... */],
          initialSort: { field: 'name', direction: 'ASC' },
          pageSize: 50,
        },
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## hooks

The `hooks` option defines [hook](../guides/hooks) functions for the list.
Hooks allow you to execute code at different stages of the mutation lifecycle.

See the [Hooks API](./hooks) for full details on the available hook options.

## graphql

The `graphql` config option allows you to configures certain aspects of the GraphQL API.

Options:

- `description` (default: `undefined`): Sets the description of the associated GraphQL type in the generated GraphQL API documentation.
  Overrides the list-level `description` config option.
- `plural`: (default: Pluralised list key, e.g. `'Users'`): Overrides the name used in multiple mutations and queries (e.g. `allUsers`, `updateUsers`, etc).
- `queryLimits` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to limit the number of results returned from a query to this list in the GraphQL API.
  See also the global `graphql.queryLimits` option in the [System Configuration API](./config).
- `cacheHint` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to specific the [dynamic cache control hints](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/caching/#in-your-resolvers-dynamic) used for queries to this this list.
- `omit` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to configure which parts of the CRUD API are autogenerated for your GraphQL API.
  This option accepts either `true`, or an array of the values `query`, `create`, `update`, or `delete`.
  If you specify `true` then the entire list, including its output type, will be omitted from the GraphQL API.
  If you provide an array of `query`, `create`, `update`, or `delete` options, the corresponding operations will be omitted from the GraphQL API.

```typescript
import { CacheScope } from 'apollo-cache-control';
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      graphql: {
        description: '...',
        itemQueryName: '...',
        listQueryName: '...',
        queryLimits: { maxResults: 100 },
        cacheHint: { maxAge: 60, scope: CacheScope.Private },
        omit: ['query', 'create', 'update', 'delete'],
      },
      /* ... */
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## db

The `db` config option allows you to configures certain aspects of the database connection specific to this list.

Options:

- `idField` (default: `{ kind: "cuid" }`): The kind of id field to use, it can be one of: `cuid`, `uuid` or `autoincrement`.
  The default across all lists can be changed at the root-level `db.idField` config.

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      db: {
        idField: { kind: 'uuid' },
      },
      /* ... */
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## description

The `description` option defines a string which will be used as a description in the Admin UI and GraphQL API docs.
This option can be individually overridden by the `graphql.description` or `ui.description` options.

## Related resources

<RelatedContent>
  <Well
    heading="Fields API Reference"
    href="/docs/apis/fields"
    >
    Defines the names, types, and configuration of Keystone fields. See all the fields and the configuration options they accept.
  </Well>
  <Well
    heading="Config API Reference"
    href="/docs/apis/config"
    >
    The API to configure all the parts parts of your Keystone system.
  </Well>
  <Well
    heading="Example Project: Blog"
    href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples/blog"
    target="_blank"
    rel="noopener noreferrer"
    >
    A basic Blog schema with Posts and Authors. Use this as a starting place for learning how to use Keystone. It’s also a starter for other feature projects.
  </Well>
</RelatedContent>

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Reference docs for Keystone’s Schema API, which defines the data model of your system.">{children}</Markdown>;
