docs/pages/docs/guides/document-fields.mdx, before:

import { MDXProvider } from '@mdx-js/react';
import { components } from '../../../components/Markdown';
import { getHeadings } from '../../../lib/getHeadings';
import { H1 } from '../../../components/docs/Heading';
import { DocsPage } from '../../../components/Page';
import {
  DocumentEditorDemo,
  DocumentFeaturesFormAndCode,
  DocumentFeaturesProvider,
} from '../../../components/docs/DocumentEditorDemo';
import Intro from './_doc-field-intro.mdx';

---

## Customise the editor

You can configure which fields appear in the editor based on what your team needs. Try adding and removing features below ↓ to see them update in the editor above ↑.

<DocumentFeaturesFormAndCode />

## Inline Relationships

The document field can also have inline relationships for things like mentions.
These are not stored like relationship fields on lists, they are stored as ids in the document structure.

```tsx
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { document } from '@keystone-next/fields-document';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: document({
          relationships: {
            mention: {
              kind: 'inline',
              listKey: 'User',
              label: 'Mention',
              selection: 'some GraphQL selection',
            },
          },
          /* ... */
        }),
        /* ... */
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

By default, only the ids for relationships are sent in document.
To include the label and extra data from the selection specified in the relationship, pass `hydrateRelationships: true` to the field.

```graphql
query {
  allPosts {
    content(hydrateRelationships: true) {
      document
    }
  }
}
```

Whenever a value is saved to the document field, the extra data from the selection and the label on relationships are removed (if they exist) so only the id is stored.

## Component Blocks

Component blocks let you add custom blocks to the editor that can accept unstructured content and render a form that renders arbitrary React components for input.

To add component blocks, you need to create a file somewhere and export component blocks from there

`component-blocks.tsx`

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { NotEditable, component, fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

// naming the export componentBlocks is important because the Admin UI
// expects to find the components like on the componentBlocks export
export const componentBlocks = {
  quote: component({
    component: ({ attribution, content }) => {
      return (
        <div
          style={{
            borderLeft: '3px solid #CBD5E0',
            paddingLeft: 16,
          }}
        >
          <div style={{ fontStyle: 'italic', color: '#4A5568' }}>{content}</div>
          <div style={{ fontWeight: 'bold', color: '#718096' }}>
            <NotEditable>— </NotEditable>
            {attribution}
          </div>
        </div>
      );
    },
    label: 'Quote',
    props: {
      content: fields.child({
        kind: 'block',
        placeholder: 'Quote...',
        formatting: { inlineMarks: 'inherit', softBreaks: 'inherit' },
        links: 'inherit',
      }),
      attribution: fields.child({ kind: 'inline', placeholder: 'Attribution...' }),
    },
    chromeless: true,
  }),
};
```

You need to import the `componentBlocks` and pass it to the document field along with the path to the file with the component blocks to `ui.views`.

`keystone.ts`

```ts
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { document } from '@keystone-next/fields-document';
import { componentBlocks } from './component-blocks';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: document({
          ui: {
            views: require.resolve('./component-blocks')
          },
          componentBlocks,
        }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

<details>

<summary>
  In the document editor at the top of this page, the Quote(shown above), Notice and Hero are
  implemented as component blocks, see the implementation for Notice and Hero by expanding this.
</summary>

```tsx
/** @jsx */
import { jsx } from '@keystone-ui/core';
import { component, fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

export const componentBlocks = {
  notice: component({
    component: function Notice({ content, intent }) {
      const { palette, radii, spacing } = useTheme();
      const intentMap = {
        info: {
          background: palette.blue100,
          foreground: palette.blue700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.info,
        },
        error: {
          background: palette.red100,
          foreground: palette.red700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.error,
        },
        warning: {
          background: palette.yellow100,
          foreground: palette.yellow700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.warning,
        },
        success: {
          background: palette.green100,
          foreground: palette.green700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.success,
        },
      };
      const intentConfig = intentMap[intent.value];

      return (
        <div
          css={{
            borderRadius: radii.small,
            display: 'flex',
            paddingLeft: spacing.medium,
            paddingRight: spacing.medium,
          }}
          style={{
            background: intentConfig.background,
          }}
        >
          <div
            contentEditable={false}
            css={{
              color: intentConfig.foreground,
              marginRight: spacing.small,
              marginTop: '1em',
              userSelect: 'none',
            }}
          >
            <intentConfig.icon />
          </div>
          <div css={{ flex: 1 }}>{content}</div>
        </div>
      );
    },
    label: 'Notice',
    chromeless: true,
    props: {
      intent: fields.select({
        label: 'Intent',
        options: [
          { value: 'info', label: 'Info' },
          { value: 'warning', label: 'Warning' },
          { value: 'error', label: 'Error' },
          { value: 'success', label: 'Success' },
        ] as const,
        defaultValue: 'info',
      }),
      content: fields.child({
        kind: 'block',
        placeholder: '',
        formatting: 'inherit',
        dividers: 'inherit',
        links: 'inherit',
        relationships: 'inherit',
      }),
    },
    toolbar({ props, onRemove }) {
      return (
        <ToolbarGroup>
          {props.intent.options.map(opt => {
            const Icon = noticeIconMap[opt.value];

            return (
              <Tooltip key={opt.value} content={opt.label} weight="subtle">
                {attrs => (
                  <ToolbarButton
                    isSelected={props.intent.value === opt.value}
                    onClick={() => {
                      props.intent.onChange(opt.value);
                    }}
                    {...attrs}
                  >
                    <Icon size="small" />
                  </ToolbarButton>
                )}
              </Tooltip>
            );
          })}

          <ToolbarSeparator />

          <Tooltip content="Remove" weight="subtle">
            {attrs => (
              <ToolbarButton variant="destructive" onClick={onRemove} {...attrs}>
                <Trash2Icon size="small" />
              </ToolbarButton>
            )}
          </Tooltip>
        </ToolbarGroup>
      );
    },
  }),
};
```

</details>

### Fields

There are a variety

#### Child Fields

#### Form Fields

`@keystone-next/keystone/component-blocks` ships with a set of form fields for common purposes:

- `fields.text({ label: '...', defaultValue: '...' })`
- `fields.url({ label: '...', defaultValue: '...' })`
- `fields.select({ label: '...', options: [{ label:'A', value:'a' }, { label:'B', value:'b' }] defaultValue: 'a' })`
- `fields.checkbox({ label: '...', defaultValue: false })`

You can write your own form fields that conform to this API.

```ts
type FormField<Value, Options> = {
  kind: 'form';
  Input(props: {
    value: Value;
    onChange(value: Value): void;
    autoFocus: boolean;
    /**
     * This will be true when validate has returned false and the user has attempted to close the form
     * or when the form is open and they attempt to save the item
     */
    forceValidation: boolean;
  }): ReactElement | null;
  /**
   * The options are config about the field that are available on the
   * preview props when rendering the toolbar and preview component
   */
  options: Options;
  defaultValue: Value;
  /**
   * validate will be called in two cases:
   * - on the client in the editor when a user is changing the value.
   *   Returning `false` will block closing the form
   *   and saving the item.
   * - on the server when a change is received before allowing it to be saved
   *   if `true` is returned
   * @param value The value of the form field. You should NOT trust
   * this value to be of the correct type because it could come from
   * a potentially malicious client
   */
  validate(value: unknown): boolean;
};
```

#### Object Fields

To nest a group of component block fields, you can use `fields.object`

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.object({
  a: fields.text({ label: 'A' }),
  a: fields.text({ label: 'B' }),
});
```

#### Relationship Fields

To use relationship fields on component blocks, you need to add a relationship to the document field config.

```tsx
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { document } from '@keystone-next/fields-document';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: document({
          relationships: {
            featuredAuthors: {
              kind: 'prop',
              listKey: 'User',
              selection: 'posts { id title }',
              many: true,
            },
          },
          /* ... */
        }),
        /* ... */
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

You can reference the key of the relationship in the relationship and in the form, it will render a relationship select like the relationship field on lists.

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.relationship({ label: 'Authors', relationship: 'featuredAuthors' });
```

> Note: Like inline relationships, relationship fields on component blocks are not stored like relationship fields on lists, they are stored as ids in the document structure.

### Objects

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.object({
  text: fields.text({ label: 'Text' }),
  child: fields.placeholder({ placeholder: 'Content...' }),
});
```

### Conditional Fields

You can conditionally show different fields with `fields.conditional`, they require a form field with a value that is either a string or a boolean as the discriminant and an object of fields for the values.

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.conditional(fields.checkbox({ label: 'Show Call to action' }), {
  true: fields.object({
    url: fields.url({ label: 'URL' }),
    content: fields.child({ kind: 'inline', placeholder: 'Call to Action' }),
  }),
  false: fields.empty(),
});
```

> You might find `fields.empty()` useful which stores and renders nothing if you want to have a field in one case and nothing anything in another

### Preview Props

### Chromeless

If you want to give your component blocks a more native feel in the editor, you can set `chromeless: true`.
When you disable it, the generated form is disabled.
In the editor at the top of this page, the Notice and Quote blocks are chromeless and the Hero has the chrome enabled.
You will likely want to provide a custom [toolbar](#toolbar) when you set `chromeless: true`.

```tsx
component({
  chromeless: false,
});
```

### Toolbar

```tsx
component({
  chromeless: false,
});
```

## Rendering

To render the document in a React app, use the `@keystone-next/document-renderer` package.

```tsx
import { DocumentRenderer } from '@keystone-next/document-renderer';

<DocumentRenderer document={document} />;
```

### Overriding the default renderers

```tsx
import { DocumentRenderer, DocumentRendererProps } from '@keystone-next/document-renderer';

const renderers: DocumentRendererProps['renderers'] = {
  // use your editor's autocomplete to see what other renderers you can override
  inline: {
    bold: ({ children }) => {
      return <strong>{children}</strong>;
    },
  },
  block: {
    paragraph: ({ children, textAlign }) => {
      return <p style={{ textAlign }}>{children}</p>;
    },
  },
};

<DocumentRenderer document={document} renderers={renderers} />;
```

### Rendering Component blocks

#### Typing props for rendering component blocks

If you're using TypeScript, you can infer the props types for component with `InferRenderersForComponentBlocks` from `@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks`.

```tsx
import { DocumentRenderer } from '@keystone-next/document-renderer';
import { InferRenderersForComponentBlocks } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';
import { componentBlocks } from '../path/to/your/custom/views';
const componentBlockRenderers: InferRenderersForComponentBlocks<typeof componentBlocks> = {
  someComponentBlock: props => {
    // props will be inferred from your component blocks
  },
};

<DocumentRenderer document={document} componentBlocks={componentBlockRenderers} />;
```

export default ({ children }) => {
  const headings = getHeadings(children);
  return (
    <DocsPage
      title={'How To Use Document Fields'}
      headings={[
        {
          label: 'How To Use Document Fields',
          id: 'how-to-use-document-fields',
          depth: 1,
        },
        {
          label: 'Try the demo',
          id: 'try-the-demo',
          depth: 2,
        },
        ...headings,
      ]}
    >
      <DocumentFeaturesProvider>
        <div className="prose">
          <H1>How To Use Document Fields</H1>
          <MDXProvider components={components}><Intro /></MDXProvider>
        </div>
        <DocumentEditorDemo />
        <div className="prose">
          <MDXProvider components={components}>{children}</MDXProvider>
        </div>
      </DocumentFeaturesProvider>
    </DocsPage>
  );
};

Commit message:

Update document field editor demo

docs/pages/docs/guides/document-fields.mdx, after:

import { MDXProvider } from '@mdx-js/react';
import { components } from '../../../components/Markdown';
import { getHeadings } from '../../../lib/getHeadings';
import { H1 } from '../../../components/docs/Heading';
import { DocsPage } from '../../../components/Page';
import {
  DocumentEditorDemo,
  DocumentFeaturesFormAndCode,
  DocumentFeaturesProvider,
} from '../../../components/docs/DocumentEditorDemo';
import Intro from './_doc-field-intro.mdx';

---

## Configure the demo

The document field is highly configurable.
The form below lets you control which features are enabled in the demo editor.
You can see the changes both in the toolbar of the editor, and in the field configuration itself.

<DocumentFeaturesFormAndCode />

## Inline Relationships

The document field can also have inline relationships for things like mentions.
These are not stored like relationship fields on lists, they are stored as ids in the document structure.

```tsx
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { document } from '@keystone-next/fields-document';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: document({
          relationships: {
            mention: {
              kind: 'inline',
              listKey: 'User',
              label: 'Mention',
              selection: 'some GraphQL selection',
            },
          },
          /* ... */
        }),
        /* ... */
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

By default, only the ids for relationships are sent in document.
To include the label and extra data from the selection specified in the relationship, pass `hydrateRelationships: true` to the field.

```graphql
query {
  allPosts {
    content(hydrateRelationships: true) {
      document
    }
  }
}
```

Whenever a value is saved to the document field, the extra data from the selection and the label on relationships are removed (if they exist) so only the id is stored.

## Component Blocks

Component blocks let you add custom blocks to the editor that can accept unstructured content and render a form that renders arbitrary React components for input.

To add component blocks, you need to create a file somewhere and export component blocks from there

`component-blocks.tsx`

```tsx
import React from 'react';
import { NotEditable, component, fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

// naming the export componentBlocks is important because the Admin UI
// expects to find the components like on the componentBlocks export
export const componentBlocks = {
  quote: component({
    component: ({ attribution, content }) => {
      return (
        <div
          style={{
            borderLeft: '3px solid #CBD5E0',
            paddingLeft: 16,
          }}
        >
          <div style={{ fontStyle: 'italic', color: '#4A5568' }}>{content}</div>
          <div style={{ fontWeight: 'bold', color: '#718096' }}>
            <NotEditable>— </NotEditable>
            {attribution}
          </div>
        </div>
      );
    },
    label: 'Quote',
    props: {
      content: fields.child({
        kind: 'block',
        placeholder: 'Quote...',
        formatting: { inlineMarks: 'inherit', softBreaks: 'inherit' },
        links: 'inherit',
      }),
      attribution: fields.child({ kind: 'inline', placeholder: 'Attribution...' }),
    },
    chromeless: true,
  }),
};
```

You need to import the `componentBlocks` and pass it to the document field along with the path to the file with the component blocks to `ui.views`.

`keystone.ts`

```ts
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { document } from '@keystone-next/fields-document';
import { componentBlocks } from './component-blocks';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: document({
          ui: {
            views: require.resolve('./component-blocks')
          },
          componentBlocks,
        }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

<details>

<summary>
  In the document editor at the top of this page, the Quote(shown above), Notice and Hero are
  implemented as component blocks, see the implementation for Notice and Hero by expanding this.
</summary>

```tsx
/** @jsx */
import { jsx } from '@keystone-ui/core';
import { component, fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

export const componentBlocks = {
  notice: component({
    component: function Notice({ content, intent }) {
      const { palette, radii, spacing } = useTheme();
      const intentMap = {
        info: {
          background: palette.blue100,
          foreground: palette.blue700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.info,
        },
        error: {
          background: palette.red100,
          foreground: palette.red700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.error,
        },
        warning: {
          background: palette.yellow100,
          foreground: palette.yellow700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.warning,
        },
        success: {
          background: palette.green100,
          foreground: palette.green700,
          icon: noticeIconMap.success,
        },
      };
      const intentConfig = intentMap[intent.value];

      return (
        <div
          css={{
            borderRadius: radii.small,
            display: 'flex',
            paddingLeft: spacing.medium,
            paddingRight: spacing.medium,
          }}
          style={{
            background: intentConfig.background,
          }}
        >
          <div
            contentEditable={false}
            css={{
              color: intentConfig.foreground,
              marginRight: spacing.small,
              marginTop: '1em',
              userSelect: 'none',
            }}
          >
            <intentConfig.icon />
          </div>
          <div css={{ flex: 1 }}>{content}</div>
        </div>
      );
    },
    label: 'Notice',
    chromeless: true,
    props: {
      intent: fields.select({
        label: 'Intent',
        options: [
          { value: 'info', label: 'Info' },
          { value: 'warning', label: 'Warning' },
          { value: 'error', label: 'Error' },
          { value: 'success', label: 'Success' },
        ] as const,
        defaultValue: 'info',
      }),
      content: fields.child({
        kind: 'block',
        placeholder: '',
        formatting: 'inherit',
        dividers: 'inherit',
        links: 'inherit',
        relationships: 'inherit',
      }),
    },
    toolbar({ props, onRemove }) {
      return (
        <ToolbarGroup>
          {props.intent.options.map(opt => {
            const Icon = noticeIconMap[opt.value];

            return (
              <Tooltip key={opt.value} content={opt.label} weight="subtle">
                {attrs => (
                  <ToolbarButton
                    isSelected={props.intent.value === opt.value}
                    onClick={() => {
                      props.intent.onChange(opt.value);
                    }}
                    {...attrs}
                  >
                    <Icon size="small" />
                  </ToolbarButton>
                )}
              </Tooltip>
            );
          })}

          <ToolbarSeparator />

          <Tooltip content="Remove" weight="subtle">
            {attrs => (
              <ToolbarButton variant="destructive" onClick={onRemove} {...attrs}>
                <Trash2Icon size="small" />
              </ToolbarButton>
            )}
          </Tooltip>
        </ToolbarGroup>
      );
    },
  }),
};
```

</details>

### Fields

There are a variety

#### Child Fields

#### Form Fields

`@keystone-next/keystone/component-blocks` ships with a set of form fields for common purposes:

- `fields.text({ label: '...', defaultValue: '...' })`
- `fields.url({ label: '...', defaultValue: '...' })`
- `fields.select({ label: '...', options: [{ label:'A', value:'a' }, { label:'B', value:'b' }] defaultValue: 'a' })`
- `fields.checkbox({ label: '...', defaultValue: false })`

You can write your own form fields that conform to this API.

```ts
type FormField<Value, Options> = {
  kind: 'form';
  Input(props: {
    value: Value;
    onChange(value: Value): void;
    autoFocus: boolean;
    /**
     * This will be true when validate has returned false and the user has attempted to close the form
     * or when the form is open and they attempt to save the item
     */
    forceValidation: boolean;
  }): ReactElement | null;
  /**
   * The options are config about the field that are available on the
   * preview props when rendering the toolbar and preview component
   */
  options: Options;
  defaultValue: Value;
  /**
   * validate will be called in two cases:
   * - on the client in the editor when a user is changing the value.
   *   Returning `false` will block closing the form
   *   and saving the item.
   * - on the server when a change is received before allowing it to be saved
   *   if `true` is returned
   * @param value The value of the form field. You should NOT trust
   * this value to be of the correct type because it could come from
   * a potentially malicious client
   */
  validate(value: unknown): boolean;
};
```

#### Object Fields

To nest a group of component block fields, you can use `fields.object`

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.object({
  a: fields.text({ label: 'A' }),
  a: fields.text({ label: 'B' }),
});
```

#### Relationship Fields

To use relationship fields on component blocks, you need to add a relationship to the document field config.

```tsx
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { document } from '@keystone-next/fields-document';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    ListName: list({
      fields: {
        fieldName: document({
          relationships: {
            featuredAuthors: {
              kind: 'prop',
              listKey: 'User',
              selection: 'posts { id title }',
              many: true,
            },
          },
          /* ... */
        }),
        /* ... */
      },
    }),
    /* ... */
  }),
  /* ... */
});
```

You can reference the key of the relationship in the relationship and in the form, it will render a relationship select like the relationship field on lists.

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.relationship({ label: 'Authors', relationship: 'featuredAuthors' });
```

> Note: Like inline relationships, relationship fields on component blocks are not stored like relationship fields on lists, they are stored as ids in the document structure.

### Objects

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.object({
  text: fields.text({ label: 'Text' }),
  child: fields.placeholder({ placeholder: 'Content...' }),
});
```

### Conditional Fields

You can conditionally show different fields with `fields.conditional`, they require a form field with a value that is either a string or a boolean as the discriminant and an object of fields for the values.

```tsx
import { fields } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';

fields.conditional(fields.checkbox({ label: 'Show Call to action' }), {
  true: fields.object({
    url: fields.url({ label: 'URL' }),
    content: fields.child({ kind: 'inline', placeholder: 'Call to Action' }),
  }),
  false: fields.empty(),
});
```

> You might find `fields.empty()` useful which stores and renders nothing if you want to have a field in one case and nothing anything in another

### Preview Props

### Chromeless

If you want to give your component blocks a more native feel in the editor, you can set `chromeless: true`.
When you disable it, the generated form is disabled.
In the editor at the top of this page, the Notice and Quote blocks are chromeless and the Hero has the chrome enabled.
You will likely want to provide a custom [toolbar](#toolbar) when you set `chromeless: true`.

```tsx
component({
  chromeless: false,
});
```

### Toolbar

```tsx
component({
  chromeless: false,
});
```

## Rendering

To render the document in a React app, use the `@keystone-next/document-renderer` package.

```tsx
import { DocumentRenderer } from '@keystone-next/document-renderer';

<DocumentRenderer document={document} />;
```

### Overriding the default renderers

```tsx
import { DocumentRenderer, DocumentRendererProps } from '@keystone-next/document-renderer';

const renderers: DocumentRendererProps['renderers'] = {
  // use your editor's autocomplete to see what other renderers you can override
  inline: {
    bold: ({ children }) => {
      return <strong>{children}</strong>;
    },
  },
  block: {
    paragraph: ({ children, textAlign }) => {
      return <p style={{ textAlign }}>{children}</p>;
    },
  },
};

<DocumentRenderer document={document} renderers={renderers} />;
```

### Rendering Component blocks

#### Typing props for rendering component blocks

If you're using TypeScript, you can infer the props types for component with `InferRenderersForComponentBlocks` from `@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks`.

```tsx
import { DocumentRenderer } from '@keystone-next/document-renderer';
import { InferRenderersForComponentBlocks } from '@keystone-next/fields-document/component-blocks';
import { componentBlocks } from '../path/to/your/custom/views';
const componentBlockRenderers: InferRenderersForComponentBlocks<typeof componentBlocks> = {
  someComponentBlock: props => {
    // props will be inferred from your component blocks
  },
};

<DocumentRenderer document={document} componentBlocks={componentBlockRenderers} />;
```

export default ({ children }) => {
  const headings = getHeadings(children);
  return (
    <DocsPage
      title={'How To Use Document Fields'}
      headings={[
        {
          label: 'How To Use Document Fields',
          id: 'how-to-use-document-fields',
          depth: 1,
        },
        {
          label: 'Try the demo',
          id: 'try-the-demo',
          depth: 2,
        },
        ...headings,
      ]}
    >
      <DocumentFeaturesProvider>
        <div className="prose">
          <H1>How To Use Document Fields</H1>
          <MDXProvider components={components}><Intro /></MDXProvider>
        </div>
        <DocumentEditorDemo />
        <div className="prose">
          <MDXProvider components={components}>{children}</MDXProvider>
        </div>
      </DocumentFeaturesProvider>
    </DocsPage>
  );
};
