docs/pages/docs/guides/filters.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';

# GraphQL Queries - Filters

Keystone provides a powerful GraphQL API for querying the data in your system.
At the core of this API are **query filters**.
This guide will show you how to use filters to get data you need.

!> The filter references in this guide are based on the schema defined in the [Task Manager](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples/task-manager) example project.

## Scalar Filters

If we want to find all the `Tasks` in our system, we can use the query `tasks()`.

```graphql
{
  tasks {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

In general we don't want to grab all the tasks at once, but we want to find a particular set of tasks which match a certain condition.
In Keystone we can do this by passing a `where` argument to the `tasks()` query.

If we want to find all the tasks with a label equal to `"Hello"` we can write:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { label: { equals: "Hello" } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

Keystone provides a wide range of different filters. If we want to find all those tasks which **don't** have a label of `"Hello"` we can write:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { label: { not: { equals: "Hello" } } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

The `text()` field type also supports searching for sub-strings within a field:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { label: { contains: "He" } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

Different field types support different filters. The field `finishBy: timestamp()`, for example, lets you filter by tasks with a due date after a particular point in time:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { finishBy: { gt: "2022-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

For a full list of the different filters provided by each field type, please check the [Query Filter API](../apis/filters).

For more complex queries, you can combine multiple filters, and only those items which match all conditions will be returned.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: {
    label: { contains: "He" },
    finishBy: { gt: "2022-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" }
  }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

## Combined Filters

For more advanced queries, you might need to explicitly combine different filters.

### AND

The `AND` operater accepts a list of sub-filters, and will only return those items which match all of these conditions.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { AND: [
    { label: { contains: "H" } },
    { label: { contains: "ll" } }
  ] }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

### OR

The `OR` operater accepts a list of sub-filters, and will only return those items which match at least one of these conditions.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { OR: [
    { label: { contains: "H" } },
    { label: { contains: "ll" } }
  ] }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

### NOT

The `NOT` operater accepts a list of sub-filters, and will only return those items which don't match the conditions.
You'll generally only pass a single filter to `NOT` rather than a list but if you do a pass a list, they're `AND`ed together.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { NOT: {
    label: { contains: "H" }
  } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

## Relationship Filters

As well as filtering by scalar fields, you can also filter against relationship fields.
Relationship filters will depend on whether you have `many: true` or `many: false` [configured on the field](./relationships).

### One

If you have `many: false` configured on the relationship field, then you can find items based on a `where` filter using the fields from the related list.

For example, to find all the tasks where the task is assigned to a used named `"Alice"`, we can run the following query.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { assignedTo: { name: { equals: "Alice" } } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

### Many

If you have `many: true` configured on the relationship field, then you can find items based on whether `some`, `none`, or `every` of the related items match a `where` filter using the fields from the related list.

For example, to find all the people which have `some` posts with the label `"Hello"`, we can run the following query:

```graphql
{
  people(where: { tasks: { some: { label: { equals: "Hello" } } } }) {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Learn how to use query filters get the data you need from Keystone’s powerful GraphQL API.">{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Added upgrade notices to GraphQL API related pages (#6387)

docs/pages/docs/guides/filters.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';

# GraphQL Queries - Filters

?> We recently improved our GraphQL API so it’s easier to program and reason about. If you were using it prior to August 17th 2021, [read this guide](/updates/new-graphql-api) for info on how to upgrade.

Keystone provides a powerful GraphQL API for querying the data in your system.
At the core of this API are **query filters**.
This guide will show you how to use filters to get data you need.

!> The filter references in this guide are based on the schema defined in the [Task Manager](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples/task-manager) example project.

## Scalar Filters

If we want to find all the `Tasks` in our system, we can use the query `tasks()`.

```graphql
{
  tasks {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

In general we don't want to grab all the tasks at once, but we want to find a particular set of tasks which match a certain condition.
In Keystone we can do this by passing a `where` argument to the `tasks()` query.

If we want to find all the tasks with a label equal to `"Hello"` we can write:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { label: { equals: "Hello" } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

Keystone provides a wide range of different filters. If we want to find all those tasks which **don't** have a label of `"Hello"` we can write:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { label: { not: { equals: "Hello" } } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

The `text()` field type also supports searching for sub-strings within a field:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { label: { contains: "He" } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

Different field types support different filters. The field `finishBy: timestamp()`, for example, lets you filter by tasks with a due date after a particular point in time:

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { finishBy: { gt: "2022-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

For a full list of the different filters provided by each field type, please check the [Query Filter API](../apis/filters).

For more complex queries, you can combine multiple filters, and only those items which match all conditions will be returned.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: {
    label: { contains: "He" },
    finishBy: { gt: "2022-01-01T00:00:00.000Z" }
  }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

## Combined Filters

For more advanced queries, you might need to explicitly combine different filters.

### AND

The `AND` operater accepts a list of sub-filters, and will only return those items which match all of these conditions.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { AND: [
    { label: { contains: "H" } },
    { label: { contains: "ll" } }
  ] }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

### OR

The `OR` operater accepts a list of sub-filters, and will only return those items which match at least one of these conditions.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { OR: [
    { label: { contains: "H" } },
    { label: { contains: "ll" } }
  ] }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

### NOT

The `NOT` operater accepts a list of sub-filters, and will only return those items which don't match the conditions.
You'll generally only pass a single filter to `NOT` rather than a list but if you do a pass a list, they're `AND`ed together.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { NOT: {
    label: { contains: "H" }
  } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

## Relationship Filters

As well as filtering by scalar fields, you can also filter against relationship fields.
Relationship filters will depend on whether you have `many: true` or `many: false` [configured on the field](./relationships).

### One

If you have `many: false` configured on the relationship field, then you can find items based on a `where` filter using the fields from the related list.

For example, to find all the tasks where the task is assigned to a used named `"Alice"`, we can run the following query.

```graphql
{
  tasks(where: { assignedTo: { name: { equals: "Alice" } } }) {
    id
    label
  }
}
```

### Many

If you have `many: true` configured on the relationship field, then you can find items based on whether `some`, `none`, or `every` of the related items match a `where` filter using the fields from the related list.

For example, to find all the people which have `some` posts with the label `"Hello"`, we can run the following query:

```graphql
{
  people(where: { tasks: { some: { label: { equals: "Hello" } } } }) {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Learn how to use query filters get the data you need from Keystone’s powerful GraphQL API.">{children}</Markdown>;
