---
title: "GraphQL Schema Extension"
description: "Learn how to extend your GraphQL Schema using extendGraphqlSchema."
---

Keystone generates an **executable GraphQL Schema** based on your [Keystone configuration](../config/config), which is then made available through the GraphQL API.

This schema contains all GraphQL types, queries and mutations based on your lists and ends up as the generated `schema.graphql` file found in the root of your Keystone project.
Generally changing the behavior of Keystone can be performed through [Hooks](../config/hooks), however, there are times when you need an extra GraphQL type or want a custom mutation or query, for these instances, Keystone has the `extendGraphqlSchema` option.

Using `extendGraphqlSchema`, you could integrate external services into your schema as if they were built into Keystone, and even use other GraphQL libraries like [Nexus](https://nexusjs.org) with
Keystone seamlessly.

A few things you can do with this include:

- Expose queries with hand crafted filters and logic, e.g to find the most popular posts
- Build business logic for e-commerce shopping carts, ordering and payment processing
- Expose data from database views, aggregate queries, the file system, or any async function
- Consolidate data from external systems through a unified GraphQL schema
- Integrate with third-party services like Algolia for search results that return Graph data from
  Keystone

The `extendGraphqlSchema` option expects a function that takes the GraphQL Schema generated by Keystone and returns a valid GraphQL schema.
You can then use this function to add or replace resolvers and types.

## Using Keystone's graphql.extend

Keystone exports `graphql` from `@keystone/core`, this uses [@graphql-ts/schema](https://docsmill.dev/npm/@graphql-ts/schema) which can be used in combination with `Context` from `.keystone/types` to extend your GraphQL schema in a type-safe way.

You can then import this into your Keystone configuration file

```ts
import { graphql } from '@keystone/core';
```

Then you can use `graphql.extend` to add custom resolvers to your GraphQL Schema.

The following example adds a custom mutation called `publishPost` to the `base` Keystone Schema. It accepts one argument (`args`) of `id` which cannot be null and has the type of ID (`graphql.nonNull(graphql.ID)`). It updates the Post with the corresponding `id` and sets its `status` to 'published' and `publishDate` to the current time.
It then returns the Post that is updated which has a GraphQL type of `Post` that is passed in from the `base` schema (`base.object('Post')`).

```ts
import { graphql, config } from '@keystone/core';
import { Context } from '.keystone/types';

export default config({
  {/* ... */},
  extendGraphqlSchema: graphql.extend(base => {
    return {
      mutation: {
        publishPost: graphql.field({
          type: base.object('Post'),
          args: { id: graphql.arg({ type: graphql.nonNull(graphql.ID) }) },
          resolve(source, { id }, context:Context) {
            return context.db.Post.updateOne({
              where: { id },
              data: { status: 'published', publishDate: new Date().toISOString() },
            });
          },
        }),
      },
    };
  }),
});
```

{% hint kind="tip" %}
Note `context.db` is used in the resolver, this ensures the correct Internal object with the correct type is returned to GraphQL.
{% /hint %}

A full example project using `graphql-ts` can be found in [examples/extend-graphql-schema-graphql-ts](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/main/examples/extend-graphql-schema-graphql-ts) on the Keystone GitHub repo.

## Using Third-Party Tools

As `extendGraphqlSchema` expects a function that returns a valid GraphQL schema you can also use third-party GraphQL schema tools to help generate or merge schemas.

### GraphQL-Tools Merge Schemas

[GraphQL Tools](https://www.graphql-tools.com/) `mergeSchemas` is a third-party package that can help with schema merging and adding custom resolvers and types, and then return an updated GraphQL schema to Keystone.

Start by installing `@graphql-tools/schema`

```bash
yarn add @graphql-tools/schema
```

Then import into your Keystone configuration

```ts
import { mergeSchemas } from '@graphql-tools/schema';
```

You can then write custom `resolvers` and `typeDefs` to merge with your Keystone `schema`. For example, to add the same custom mutation as above (`publishPost`), you would add the `typeDefs` for `publishPost` and then the `resolvers.Mutation.publishPost`
which performs the same function as above.

```ts
export default config({
  {/* ... */},
  extendGraphqlSchema: schema =>
    mergeSchemas({
      schemas: [schema],
      typeDefs: `
      type Mutation {
        publishPost(id: ID!): Post
      `,
      resolvers: {
        Mutation: {
          publishPost: (root, { id }, context) => {
            return context.db.Post.updateOne({
              where: { id },
              data: { status: 'published', publishDate: new Date().toUTCString() },
            });
          },
        },
      },
    }),
});
```

{% if $nextRelease %}
{% hint kind="tip" %}
Note - Before version `3.0.0` of `@keystone-6/core`, `@graphql-tools/schema` was exported from `@keystone/core` as `graphQLSchemaExtension` this was removed in favor of using the tool directly if required
{% /hint %}
{% else /%}
{% hint kind="tip" %}
Note - `@graphql-tools/schema` is currently exported from `@keystone/core` as `graphQLSchemaExtension` this will be removed in the next major version of `@keystone-6/core` in favor of using the tool directly if required
{% /hint %}
{% /if %}

A full example project using `@graphql-tools/schema` can be found in [examples/extend-graphql-schema-graphql-tools](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/main/examples/extend-graphql-schema-graphql-tools) on the Keystone GitHub repo.

## Related resources

{% related-content %}
{% well heading="Config API Reference" href="/docs/config/config" %}
The complete reference for the base keystone configuration
{% /well %}
{% well heading="Example Project: Extend GraphQL Schema with graphql-ts" href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/main/examples/extend-graphql-schema-graphql-ts" %}
A full keystone project illustrating how to extend your GraphQL schema using graphql-ts provided by Keystone.
{% /well %}
{% well heading="Example Project: Extend GraphQL Schema with GraphQL-Tools" href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/main/examples/extend-graphql-schema-graphql-tools" %}
A full keystone project illustrating how to extend your GraphQL schema using @graphql-tools/schema.
{% /well %}
{% well heading="Example Project: Extend GraphQL Schema with Nexus" href="https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/main/examples/extend-graphql-schema-nexus" %}
A full keystone project illustrating how to extend your GraphQL schema using Nexus and @graphql-tools/schema.
{% /well %}
{% /related-content %}
