docs/pages/guides/modes.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../components/Page';

# Modes

With the support of SQLite in Keystone 6, you can now choose to use Keystone in a “standalone” (headless) fashion, or “embed” your backend within a frontend app.

We refer to these two use cases as “modes”. **Embedded mode is new**, and offers a different approach to integrating Keystone. While it offers some quick wins (for developers in particular), it also comes with restrictions that constrain it to a narrow set of uses at this point in time. 

!> Modes is conceptual framework. It has no dedicated APIs, and there are no mentions of modes in the API docs.

## Standalone mode

Standalone mode is the default (headless) way to use Keystone. In fact **prior to version 6, standalone mode was the only way you could use Keystone**. The premise of standalone mode is:

- Keystone operates completely independently of any frontend.
- Editors read and write to your database, via Admin UI, over the internet.

?> Unless explicitly stated, all Keystone functionalities work in standalone mode, and all documentation assumes working in standalone mode.

Standalone mode doesn’t restrict you from co-locating your Keystone files in the same repo as your frontend. It’s just not important where your frontend(s) are.

## Embedded mode

Introduced in Keystone 6, _embedded_ mode is made possible by Keystone 6’s support of SQLite – which gives you the option to store your files and database content _within_ your local Keystone repo – instead of an external host. SQLite’s local storage capability makes it possible to embed Keystone within a frontend application, and build from its APIs at runtime.

### Disadvantages

- Because Admin UI access is restricted to a local development runtime – this mode is (currently) **not suitable when you need more than one editor**.
- SQLite doesn’t support scalability, concurrency, and centralization as well as PostgreSQL. **If your project has scaling needs, you’re probably better off with standalone mode and external PostgreSQL hosting**.

### Advantages

- An easy way to prototype schema without configuring external - databases (all [example starters](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples) use SQLite).
- File and DB storage can be version controlled.
- An easy way to power a NextJS frontend app. 
- Frontend and backend can be deployed to Vercel as a monorepo.
- With write access restricted to a local development, it’s more secure.

Embedded mode is a great way to operate a personal NextJS blog or portfolio with a CMS for content editing, instead of MDX.

### How to implement embedded mode

?> Currently, the only way to run embedded mode is within a NextJS app.

Add the following dependencies to your project:

```bash
yarn add @keystone-next/keystone @keystone-next/admin-ui @keystone-next/fields
```
And the `withKeystone` constant to `next.config.js`. This will let the NextJS frontend encapsulate Keystone in its script runtime.

!> Even though the frontend app calls Keystone at runtime, Keystone still operates independently of the NextJS frontend.

```js
// next.config.js

const { withKeystone } = require('@keystone-next/keystone/next');

module.exports = withKeystone();
```
[Read this tutorial](/tutorials/embedded-mode-with-nextjs-frontend) for step by step instructions on embedding Keystone inside a NextJs frontend app.

## Standalone VS Embedded modes

|Capability|Standalone mode|Embedded mode|
|-----------------|----------|-----------|
|**Admin UI**|||
|Accessible in local dev environment|✅|✅|
|Accessible over the internet|✅|❌|
|**APIs**||
|Read access in production|✅|✅|
|Write access in production|✅|❌|
|**Database support**||
|PostgreSQL|✅|❌|
|SQLite|✅|✅|
|**Hosting, version control, deployment**||
|Version control for DB content|❌|✅|
|Local file storage|❌|✅|
|Separate DB hosting required|✅|❌|
|Vercel deployable (with NextJS frontend)|❌|✅|

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Clarified standalone functionalities callout
Co-authored-by: Jed Watson <jed@keystonejs.com>

docs/pages/guides/modes.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../components/Page';

# Modes

With the support of SQLite in Keystone 6, you can now choose to use Keystone in a “standalone” (headless) fashion, or “embed” your backend within a frontend app.

We refer to these two use cases as “modes”. **Embedded mode is new**, and offers a different approach to integrating Keystone. While it offers some quick wins (for developers in particular), it also comes with restrictions that constrain it to a narrow set of uses at this point in time. 

!> Modes is conceptual framework. It has no dedicated APIs, and there are no mentions of modes in the API docs.

## Standalone mode

Standalone mode is the default (headless) way to use Keystone. In fact **prior to version 6, standalone mode was the only way you could use Keystone**. The premise of standalone mode is:

- Keystone operates completely independently of any frontend.
- Editors read and write to your database, via Admin UI, over the internet.

?> Unless explicitly stated, all Keystone functionality works in standalone mode, and all documentation assumes you're set up in standalone mode.

Standalone mode doesn’t restrict you from co-locating your Keystone files in the same repo as your frontend. It’s just not important where your frontend(s) are.

## Embedded mode

Introduced in Keystone 6, _embedded_ mode is made possible by Keystone 6’s support of SQLite – which gives you the option to store your files and database content _within_ your local Keystone repo – instead of an external host. SQLite’s local storage capability makes it possible to embed Keystone within a frontend application, and build from its APIs at runtime.

### Disadvantages

- Because Admin UI access is restricted to a local development runtime – this mode is (currently) **not suitable when you need more than one editor**.
- SQLite doesn’t support scalability, concurrency, and centralization as well as PostgreSQL. **If your project has scaling needs, you’re probably better off with standalone mode and external PostgreSQL hosting**.

### Advantages

- An easy way to prototype schema without configuring external - databases (all [example starters](https://github.com/keystonejs/keystone/tree/master/examples) use SQLite).
- File and DB storage can be version controlled.
- An easy way to power a NextJS frontend app. 
- Frontend and backend can be deployed to Vercel as a monorepo.
- With write access restricted to a local development, it’s more secure.

Embedded mode is a great way to operate a personal NextJS blog or portfolio with a CMS for content editing, instead of MDX.

### How to implement embedded mode

?> Currently, the only way to run embedded mode is within a NextJS app.

Add the following dependencies to your project:

```bash
yarn add @keystone-next/keystone @keystone-next/admin-ui @keystone-next/fields
```
And the `withKeystone` constant to `next.config.js`. This will let the NextJS frontend encapsulate Keystone in its script runtime.

!> Even though the frontend app calls Keystone at runtime, Keystone still operates independently of the NextJS frontend.

```js
// next.config.js

const { withKeystone } = require('@keystone-next/keystone/next');

module.exports = withKeystone();
```
[Read this tutorial](/tutorials/embedded-mode-with-nextjs-frontend) for step by step instructions on embedding Keystone inside a NextJs frontend app.

## Standalone VS Embedded modes

|Capability|Standalone mode|Embedded mode|
|-----------------|----------|-----------|
|**Admin UI**|||
|Accessible in local dev environment|✅|✅|
|Accessible over the internet|✅|❌|
|**APIs**||
|Read access in production|✅|✅|
|Write access in production|✅|❌|
|**Database support**||
|PostgreSQL|✅|❌|
|SQLite|✅|✅|
|**Hosting, version control, deployment**||
|Version control for DB content|❌|✅|
|Local file storage|❌|✅|
|Separate DB hosting required|✅|❌|
|Vercel deployable (with NextJS frontend)|❌|✅|

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>;
