docs/pages/guides/understanding-relationships.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../components/Page';

# Understanding Relationships

Relationships are the connections you make between different lists of content in Keystone. What you build depends a great deal on what you need. This guide will show you how to reason about, and configure relationships in Keystone so you can bring value to your project through structured content.

---

## How to reason about relationships

Keystone provides a lot of flexibility when it comes to relationships. To get what you need there are two key questions you need to answer:

1. **Which side of the relationship do I need to access data from?**

Your needs here will define whether your relationship needs to be [one, or two-sided](#one-sided-and-two-sided-relationships).

2. **How many connections do need on either side of my relationship?**

Understanding this will determine the kind of [cardinality](#establishing-cardinality) you need to configure. 

These topics are easier to understand by example. We’ll explore them, as well as the basics of setting up relationships through the use case of a **blog app** that has a `post` type for blog entries, and `user` type for post authors. Let’s get started…

## How to define a relationship in Keystone

Relationships are made using the [`relationship`](../apis/fields#relationship) field type within a [`list()`](../apis/schema). In our blog example we can connect a blog `post` to some `users` using the relationship field’s `ref` configuration option like so:


```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({ fields: { name: text() } }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({
          ref: 'User',
          // ↑ references the 'User' list from the 'author' field in the 'Post' list
          many: true
          // ↑ sets cardinality, see 'Establishing Cardinality' in this guide
        }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

## One-sided & two-sided relationships

In Keystone it’s possible to define relationships from one, or both sides of the two lists you’re connecting. We refer to these as _one-sided_, and _two-sided_ relationships:

### One-sided

Our example above is one-sided: the `Post` list relates to the `User` list via the `author` field. This kind of relationship will let us query for the `authors` of a post in our GraphQL API like so:

```graphql
Query {
  allPosts {
    title
    content
    authors {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

### Two-sided

If we can find all the `authors` of a post, we can also find all the posts written by a particular user. To do this we need to configure a two-sided relationship in our schema:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        posts: relationship({ref: 'Post.authors', many: true }),
        // ↑ relates posts to users
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({ ref: 'User.posts', many: true }),
        // ↑ relates users to posts
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

In the example above we added a `posts` field to the `User` list, and changed the `ref` config of the `authors` field to be `User.posts`.

?> (info) In a two-sided relationship the `ref` config must be formatted as `<listName>.<fieldName>` and both sides must refer to each other.

Now that our relationship is two-sided we can query all the posts written by each user like so:

```graphql
Query {
  allUsers {
    name
    posts {
      title
      content
    }
  }
}
```
?> (warning)

?> **Things to keep in mind:**

?> - Two-sided relationships are declared in two places, but **there is only one relationship between both lists**.

?> - **Both fields share the same data**. If you change the author of a post, that post will no longer show up in the original author’s posts.

### Self-referencing relationships

Keystone also lets you define one, and two-sided **relationships that refer to the same list**. To make a _one-sided_ Twitter style following relationship we do the following:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        follows: relationship({ ref: 'User', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

Or change this into a _two-sided_ relationship to also access the followers of every user:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        follows: relationship({ ref: 'User.followers', many: true }),
        followers: relationship({ ref: 'User.follows', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

?> (info) The only relationship configuration not currently supported is having a field reference itself, e.g. `friends: relationship({ ref: 'User.friends', many: true })`.

## Establishing cardinality

_Cardinality_ is a term used to describe how many items can exist on either side of a relationship. Each side can have either `one` or `many` related items. Since each relationship can have one and two sides, we have the following options available:

?> (pending) - cardinality matrix table (as responsive table (hard) or SVG img (easy)) .

Cardinality is defined through the `relationship` field’s many configuration option. It’s a boolean where:

- `false` = one

- `true` = many

?> (info) false is the default state for the many config option.

Let’s explore how to set up each type of cardinality in the context of our blog:

### One-sided cardinalities

#### One-to-many

- Posts have a single author
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        author: relationship({ ref: 'User', many: false }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```
#### Many-to-many

- Posts can have multiple authors
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({ ref: 'User', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

### Two-sided cardinalities

?> (warning) In two-sided relationships the `many` option on both sides must be considered. 

#### One-to-one

- Posts have a single author
- Users can create only one post

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        post: relationship({ ref: 'Post.author', many: false }),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        author: relationship({ ref: 'User.post', many: false }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

#### One-to-many

- Posts have a single author
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        posts: relationship({ref: 'Post.author', many: true }),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        author: relationship({ ref: 'User.posts', many: false }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```
?> (info)Note that we’ve used many: false in the author field and many: true in the posts field.

#### Many-to-many

- Posts can have multiple authors
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        posts: relationship({ ref: 'Post.authors', many: true }),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({ ref: 'User.posts', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

?> (info) Note that we have used many: true in both the authors and posts fields.

## Summary

Keystone relationships are managed using the [relationship](../apis/fields#relationship) field type. They can be configured as one-sided or two-sided by the `ref` config option. Their cardinality can be set using the `many` flag. Keystone gives you the flexibility to choose what you want based on what you need to achieve.

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Add markdown table for cardinality matrix

docs/pages/guides/understanding-relationships.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../components/Page';

# Understanding Relationships

Relationships are the connections you make between different lists of content in Keystone. What you build depends a great deal on what you need. This guide will show you how to reason about, and configure relationships in Keystone so you can bring value to your project through structured content.

---

## How to reason about relationships

Keystone provides a lot of flexibility when it comes to relationships. To get what you need there are two key questions you need to answer:

1. **Which side of the relationship do I need to access data from?**

Your needs here will define whether your relationship needs to be [one, or two-sided](#one-sided-and-two-sided-relationships).

2. **How many connections do need on either side of my relationship?**

Understanding this will determine the kind of [cardinality](#establishing-cardinality) you need to configure. 

These topics are easier to understand by example. We’ll explore them, as well as the basics of setting up relationships through the use case of a **blog app** that has a `post` type for blog entries, and `user` type for post authors. Let’s get started…

## How to define a relationship in Keystone

Relationships are made using the [`relationship`](../apis/fields#relationship) field type within a [`list()`](../apis/schema). In our blog example we can connect a blog `post` to some `users` using the relationship field’s `ref` configuration option like so:


```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({ fields: { name: text() } }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({
          ref: 'User',
          // ↑ references the 'User' list from the 'author' field in the 'Post' list
          many: true
          // ↑ sets cardinality, see 'Establishing Cardinality' in this guide
        }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

## One-sided & two-sided relationships

In Keystone it’s possible to define relationships from one, or both sides of the two lists you’re connecting. We refer to these as _one-sided_, and _two-sided_ relationships:

### One-sided

Our example above is one-sided: the `Post` list relates to the `User` list via the `author` field. This kind of relationship will let us query for the `authors` of a post in our GraphQL API like so:

```graphql
Query {
  allPosts {
    title
    content
    authors {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

### Two-sided

If we can find all the `authors` of a post, we can also find all the posts written by a particular user. To do this we need to configure a two-sided relationship in our schema:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        posts: relationship({ref: 'Post.authors', many: true }),
        // ↑ relates posts to users
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({ ref: 'User.posts', many: true }),
        // ↑ relates users to posts
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

In the example above we added a `posts` field to the `User` list, and changed the `ref` config of the `authors` field to be `User.posts`.

?> (info) In a two-sided relationship the `ref` config must be formatted as `<listName>.<fieldName>` and both sides must refer to each other.

Now that our relationship is two-sided we can query all the posts written by each user like so:

```graphql
Query {
  allUsers {
    name
    posts {
      title
      content
    }
  }
}
```
?> (warning)

?> **Things to keep in mind:**

?> - Two-sided relationships are declared in two places, but **there is only one relationship between both lists**.

?> - **Both fields share the same data**. If you change the author of a post, that post will no longer show up in the original author’s posts.

### Self-referencing relationships

Keystone also lets you define one, and two-sided **relationships that refer to the same list**. To make a _one-sided_ Twitter style following relationship we do the following:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        follows: relationship({ ref: 'User', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

Or change this into a _two-sided_ relationship to also access the followers of every user:

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        follows: relationship({ ref: 'User.followers', many: true }),
        followers: relationship({ ref: 'User.follows', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

?> (info) The only relationship configuration not currently supported is having a field reference itself, e.g. `friends: relationship({ ref: 'User.friends', many: true })`.

## Establishing cardinality

_Cardinality_ is a term used to describe how many items can exist on either side of a relationship. Each side can have either `one` or `many` related items. Since each relationship can have one and two sides, we have the following options available:

| Relationship type | One to one | One to many | Many to many |
| :------------- | :----------: | -----------: | -----------: |
| One-sided | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Two-sided | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

Cardinality is defined through the `relationship` field’s many configuration option. It’s a boolean where:

- `false` = one

- `true` = many

?> (info) false is the default state for the many config option.

Let’s explore how to set up each type of cardinality in the context of our blog:

### One-sided cardinalities

#### One-to-many

- Posts have a single author
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
import { config, createSchema, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text, relationship } from '@keystone-next/fields';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        author: relationship({ ref: 'User', many: false }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```
#### Many-to-many

- Posts can have multiple authors
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({ ref: 'User', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

### Two-sided cardinalities

?> (warning) In two-sided relationships the `many` option on both sides must be considered. 

#### One-to-one

- Posts have a single author
- Users can create only one post

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        post: relationship({ ref: 'Post.author', many: false }),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        author: relationship({ ref: 'User.post', many: false }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

#### One-to-many

- Posts have a single author
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        posts: relationship({ref: 'Post.author', many: true }),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        author: relationship({ ref: 'User.posts', many: false }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```
?> (info)Note that we’ve used many: false in the author field and many: true in the posts field.

#### Many-to-many

- Posts can have multiple authors
- Users can have multiple posts

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: createSchema({
    User: list({
      fields: {
        name: text(),
        posts: relationship({ ref: 'Post.authors', many: true }),
      },
    }),
    Post: list({
      fields: {
        title: text(),
        content: text(),
        authors: relationship({ ref: 'User.posts', many: true }),
      },
    }),
  }),
});
```

?> (info) Note that we have used many: true in both the authors and posts fields.

## Summary

Keystone relationships are managed using the [relationship](../apis/fields#relationship) field type. They can be configured as one-sided or two-sided by the `ref` config option. Their cardinality can be set using the `many` flag. Keystone gives you the flexibility to choose what you want based on what you need to achieve.

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>;
