docs/pages/docs/walkthroughs/embedded-mode-with-sqlite-nextjs.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';

# How to embed Keystone + SQLite in a Next.js app

In this tutorial, we're going to show you how to embed Keystone and an SQLite database into a **Next.js app**.
By the end, your app will have a queryable GraphQL endpoint, based on your Keystone schema, running live on Vercel (for free!).
Content remains editable via the Admin UI in your development environment, with changes published being with each deployment of the app.

We’ll take advantage of a new way of working with Keystone where you can run it from the same place you keep your frontend code and commit everything to Git.

If you’re happy to write content in a local-only environment, and don't need a writeable API in production, this use case may be handy for you.

---

## Explaining “modes”

As a Headless CMS, by default Keystone works in **Standalone** mode. Where you host your Content API separately from your frontend(s). While this is great for scale, it complicates developing and deploying simple apps and websites.

**Keystone 6** introduces a new **Embedded** mode, which brings a different approach to integrating Keystone. It lets you embed Keystone _inside_ another app, which can streamline the development and deployment of simple projects.

Keystone 6 also introduces SQLite support – giving you the option to store your files and database content _within_ your local Keystone repo instead of an external host.

!> **Note:** Modes is conceptual framework. It has no dedicated APIs, and there are no mentions of modes in the API docs.

?> **Embedded** mode comes with some [limitations](#standalone-vs-embedded-modes) that we explore later on.

---

## Lets get started!

Here's what we're going to do:

- Create a Next.js app
- Embed Keystone, and run an Admin UI you can read and write to locally
- Add a simple Keystone [Schema](/apis/schema) with a `Post` List
- Setup a secure read-only GraphQL API endpoint (and playground) that you can access in production
- Deploy the app to Vercel 🚀

## Setup a Next.js app

Create a basic Next.js project with the `--typescript` option in an empty directory.

```bash
yarn create next-app --typescript my-project
cd my-project
```

!> Keystone 6 has great TypeScript support. Including it in your project will make it easier to use Keystone’s APIs later.

Delete the `/pages/api` directory. We’ll add a GraphQL API later in the tutorial. Your `/pages` directory should now look like this:

```text
.
└── pages
   ├── _app.tsx
   └── index.tsx
```

### Start your local server

Run `yarn dev` at the root of your project.

Next.js will start a local server for you at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

![A browser showing the Home page of the default Next.js app](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/localhost-home-1.png)

## Add Keystone to your project

Now that we have the Next.js starter with static files, let‘s embed Keystone into the app to blend file-based content with content you can edit using Keystone’s intuitive Admin UI.

### Install dependencies

Add the following Keystone dependencies to your project:

```bash
yarn add @keystone-next/keystone @keystone-next/fields
```

### Update .gitignore

Add the `.keystone` directory to your `.gitignore` file. The contents of `.keystone` are generated at build time. You’ll never have to change them.

```bash

# In your .gitignore
.keystone
```

### Create your Keystone config

To create and edit blog records in Keystone’s Admin UI, add a `keystone.ts` [configuration file](/apis/config) to your project root with a simple `Post` [list](/apis/schema) containing fields for a Title, Slug, and some Content.

?> **Note:** We're enabling experimental features to generate the APIs that make embedded mode work. These may change in future versions.

```tsx
// keystone.ts

import { config, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/fields';

const Post = list({
  fields: {
    title: text({ isRequired: true }),
    slug: text(),
    content: text(),
  },
});

export default config({
  db: { provider: 'sqlite', url: 'file:./app.db' },
  experimental: {
    generateNextGraphqlAPI: true,
    generateNodeAPI: true,
  },
  lists: { Post },
});
```

!> For simplicity we set all Post fields as [`text`](/apis/fields#text) above. For a highly customisable rich text editor use the [`document`](/guides/document-fields) field type.

### Add Keystone to Next.js config

Add a `next.config.js` file to your project root with the following:

```tsx

// next.config.js

const { withKeystone } = require('@keystone-next/keystone/next');

module.exports = withKeystone();
```

This is where the magic happens – the `withKeystone` function lets Next.js encapsulate Keystone in its script runtime, while Keystone still operates independently of the Next.js frontend ✨

### Update package scripts

Finally, make a small change to the `scripts` object in `package.json` to include Keystone‘s `postinstall` script:

```diff
"scripts": {
+ "postinstall": "keystone-next postinstall",
  "dev": "next dev",
  "start": "next start",
  "build": "next build"
},
```

## Start all the things

Running `yarn dev` again will do the following:

- Provision a GraphQL schema based on the configuration of `keystone.ts`
- Build a [Prisma.io](https://www.prisma.io/) schema (which Keystone uses to manage the database)
- Create the database and run a migration to set up your schema
- Serve Keystone’s Admin UI at [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
- Serve the Next.js frontend at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
- Add a `postinstall` script that ensures everything works if we install other dependencies later on

Go ahead and add two post entries using your Admin UI, ensuring you only use `hyphens-and-lowercase-chars` in the slug field for permalinks.

![Adding 2 post entries to Keystone Admin UI](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/creating-posts-in-local-admin-ui.gif)

## Query Keystone from Next.js

In order to query Keystone content we need to use the [`getStaticProps`](https://Next.js.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#getstaticprops-static-generation) and [`getStaticPaths`](https://Next.js.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#getstaticpaths-static-generation) functions in Next.js. Let’s overwrite the contents of `pages/index.tsx` with the following to query posts from Keystone:

```tsx
// pages/index.tsx

import { InferGetStaticPropsType } from 'next';
import Link from 'next/link';

// Import the generated Lists API from Keystone
import { lists } from '.keystone/api';

// Home receives a `posts` prop from `getStaticProps` below
export default function Home({
  posts,
}: InferGetStaticPropsType<typeof getStaticProps>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <main style={{margin: "3rem"}}>
      <h1>Hello World! 👋🏻 </h1>
      <ul>
        {/* Render each post with a link to the content page */}
        {posts.map(post => (
          <li key={post.id}>
            <Link href={`/post/${post.slug}`}>
              <a>{post.title}</a>
            </Link>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
      </main>
    </div>
  )
}

// Here we use the Lists API to load all the posts we want to display
// The return of this function is provided to the `Home` component
export async function getStaticProps() {
  const posts = await lists.Post.findMany({ query: 'id title slug' });
  return { props: { posts } };
}
```

Now add a `/post` subdirectory in `/pages` and include the code below in `[slug].tsx`. This will generate a new webpage every time you publish a new post entry in Keystone’s Admin UI.

```tsx
// pages/post/[slug].tsx

import {
  GetStaticPathsResult,
  GetStaticPropsContext,
  InferGetStaticPropsType,
} from 'next';
import Link from 'next/link';
import { lists } from '.keystone/api';

export default function PostPage({
  post,
}: InferGetStaticPropsType<typeof getStaticProps>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <main style={{margin: "3rem"}}>
      <div>
        <Link href="/">
          <a>&larr; back home</a>
        </Link>
      </div>
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <p>{post.content}</p>
      </main>
    </div>
  );
}

export async function getStaticPaths(): Promise<GetStaticPathsResult> {
  const posts = await lists.Post.findMany({
    query: `slug`,
  });

  const paths = posts
    .map(post => post.slug)
    .filter((slug): slug is string => !!slug)
    .map(slug => `/post/${slug}`);

  return {
    paths,
    fallback: false,
  };
}

export async function getStaticProps({
  params,
}: GetStaticPropsContext) {
  const [post] = await lists.Post.findMany({
    where: { slug: params!.slug as string },
    query: 'id title content',
  });
  return { props: { post } };
}
```

Run `yarn dev` again.

**Congratulations!** 🙌 &nbsp; You now have:

- A Next.js frontend blending static pages from your frontend repo with dynamic content from your database
- Dynamic pages powered by Keystone content that‘s editable in an intuitive Admin UI.

![Navigating between the home page and post pages](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/localhost-home-to-post.gif)

## Bonus: add the GraphQL API to the frontend

To get a read-only GraphQL API and playground in production, add `/pages/api/graphql.tsx`with the following:

```tsx
// pages/api/graphql.tsx

export { default, config } from '.keystone/next/graphql-api';
```

This takes the fully functional GraphQL API that Keystone is already generating and makes it available as an endpoint and playground within the Next.js frontend app at [http://localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql).

![A browser displaying the GraphQL playground](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/graphql-api.png)

This gives you the ability to implement a search against the same content API you have running at build time, in run time.

## Bonus: deploy to Vercel

To get your project on the internet via Vercel hosting complete the following steps:

1. Commit your project to a repository in [Github](https://github.com/), [Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/), or [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/).
2. Login to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) using an account from the services above.
3. Create a new Vercel project and link it to your newly created repository.

![A browser displaying the GraphQL playground](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/vercel-new-project.gif)

## Standalone VS Embedded modes

There are some limitations to be aware of running Keystone the way we've described in this tutorial:

- Because Admin UI access is restricted to a local development runtime, this mode is (currently) **not suitable when you need more than one editor**.
- SQLite doesn’t support scalability, concurrency, and centralisation as well as PostgreSQL. **If your project has scaling needs, you’re probably better off with standalone mode and external PostgreSQL hosting**.

It also has some advantages though:

- Your content and presentation are version controlled together
- It's an easy way to power a data-driven Next.js app
- The frontend can easily be deployed to hosts like Vercel

Embedded mode is a great way to operate a personal Next.js blog or portfolio with a CMS for content editing, instead of MDX.

## Summary

Keystone’s Embedded mode and SQLite support gives you the option to run a self contained CMS from the same place you keep your frontend code. While this option restricts read-write access to people who can run the project in local development, it has advantages with ease of setup, security, and web deployment. This is also a great way to deploy a read-only API on the web for content you manage on your computer.

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Learn how to embed Keystone and an SQLite database into a Next.js app to get a queryable GraphQL endpoint, based on your Keystone schema, running live on Vercel.">{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Tweaking docs for Next.js walkthrough for latest version (#6383)
* Tweaking docs for Next.js walkthrough.

* Update next-env.d.ts

docs/pages/docs/walkthroughs/embedded-mode-with-sqlite-nextjs.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Markdown';

# How to embed Keystone + SQLite in a Next.js app

In this tutorial, we're going to show you how to embed Keystone and an SQLite database into a **Next.js app**.
By the end, your app will have a queryable GraphQL endpoint, based on your Keystone schema, running live on Vercel (for free!).
Content remains editable via the Admin UI in your development environment, with changes published being with each deployment of the app.

We’ll take advantage of a new way of working with Keystone where you can run it from the same place you keep your frontend code and commit everything to Git.

If you’re happy to write content in a local-only environment, and don't need a writeable API in production, this use case may be handy for you.

---

## Explaining “modes”

As a Headless CMS, by default Keystone works in **Standalone** mode. Where you host your Content API separately from your frontend(s). While this is great for scale, it complicates developing and deploying simple apps and websites.

**Keystone 6** introduces a new **Embedded** mode, which brings a different approach to integrating Keystone. It lets you embed Keystone _inside_ another app, which can streamline the development and deployment of simple projects.

Keystone 6 also introduces SQLite support – giving you the option to store your files and database content _within_ your local Keystone repo instead of an external host.

!> **Note:** Modes is conceptual framework. It has no dedicated APIs, and there are no mentions of modes in the API docs.

?> **Embedded** mode comes with some [limitations](#standalone-vs-embedded-modes) that we explore later on.

---

## Lets get started!

Here's what we're going to do:

- Create a Next.js app
- Embed Keystone, and run an Admin UI you can read and write to locally
- Add a simple Keystone [Schema](/apis/schema) with a `Post` List
- Setup a secure read-only GraphQL API endpoint (and playground) that you can access in production
- Deploy the app to Vercel 🚀

## Setup a Next.js app

x> **Warning:** We normally advise to set up a new Next.js app with `yarn create next-app --typescript my-project`, however this will install Next.js `11.x`. This version isn't compatible with this guide until we upgrade Keystone's Next.js internals to `11.x`.

x> To continue, you'll need to use Next.js `10.x` until this upgrade is completed. We've set up a repository below using Next.js `10.x` you can clone in the mean time.

Clone the basic Next.js project below.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/keystonejs/embedded-mode-with-sqlite-nextjs
cd embedded-mode-with-sqlite-nextjs
```

!> Keystone 6 has great TypeScript support. Including it in your project will make it easier to use Keystone’s APIs later.

Delete the `/pages/api` directory. We’ll add a GraphQL API later in the tutorial. Your `/pages` directory should now look like this:

```text
.
└── pages
   ├── _app.tsx
   └── index.tsx
```

### Start your local server

Run `yarn dev` at the root of your project.

Next.js will start a local server for you at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

![A browser showing the Home page of the default Next.js app](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/localhost-home-1.png)

## Add Keystone to your project

Now that we have the Next.js starter with static files, let‘s embed Keystone into the app to blend file-based content with content you can edit using Keystone’s intuitive Admin UI.

### Install dependencies

Add the following Keystone dependencies to your project:

```bash
yarn add @keystone-next/keystone @keystone-next/fields
```

### Update .gitignore

Add the `.keystone` directory to your `.gitignore` file. The contents of `.keystone` are generated at build time. You’ll never have to change them.

```bash

# In your .gitignore
.keystone
```

### Create your Keystone config

To create and edit blog records in Keystone’s Admin UI, add a `keystone.ts` [configuration file](/apis/config) to your project root with a simple `Post` [list](/apis/schema) containing fields for a Title, Slug, and some Content.

?> **Note:** We're enabling experimental features to generate the APIs that make embedded mode work. These may change in future versions.

```tsx
// keystone.ts

import { config, list } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';
import { text } from '@keystone-next/fields';

const Post = list({
  fields: {
    title: text({ isRequired: true }),
    slug: text(),
    content: text(),
  },
});

export default config({
  db: { provider: 'sqlite', url: 'file:./app.db' },
  experimental: {
    generateNextGraphqlAPI: true,
    generateNodeAPI: true,
  },
  lists: { Post },
});
```

!> For simplicity we set all Post fields as [`text`](/apis/fields#text) above. For a highly customisable rich text editor use the [`document`](/guides/document-fields) field type.

### Add Keystone to Next.js config

Add a `next.config.js` file to your project root with the following:

```tsx

// next.config.js

const { withKeystone } = require('@keystone-next/keystone/next');

module.exports = withKeystone();
```

This is where the magic happens – the `withKeystone` function lets Next.js encapsulate Keystone in its script runtime, while Keystone still operates independently of the Next.js frontend ✨

### Update package scripts

Finally, make a small change to the `scripts` object in `package.json` to include Keystone‘s `postinstall` script:

```diff
"scripts": {
+ "postinstall": "keystone-next postinstall",
  "dev": "next dev",
  "start": "next start",
  "build": "next build"
},
```

## Start all the things

Running `yarn dev` again will do the following:

- Provision a GraphQL schema based on the configuration of `keystone.ts`
- Build a [Prisma.io](https://www.prisma.io/) schema (which Keystone uses to manage the database)
- Create the database and run a migration to set up your schema
- Serve Keystone’s Admin UI at [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
- Serve the Next.js frontend at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)
- Add a `postinstall` script that ensures everything works if we install other dependencies later on

Go ahead and add two post entries using your Admin UI, ensuring you only use `hyphens-and-lowercase-chars` in the slug field for permalinks.

![Adding 2 post entries to Keystone Admin UI](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/creating-posts-in-local-admin-ui.gif)

## Query Keystone from Next.js

In order to query Keystone content we need to use the [`getStaticProps`](https://Next.js.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#getstaticprops-static-generation) and [`getStaticPaths`](https://Next.js.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#getstaticpaths-static-generation) functions in Next.js. Let’s overwrite the contents of `pages/index.tsx` with the following to query posts from Keystone:

```tsx
// pages/index.tsx

import { InferGetStaticPropsType } from 'next';
import Link from 'next/link';

// Import the generated Lists API from Keystone
import { lists } from '.keystone/api';

// Home receives a `posts` prop from `getStaticProps` below
export default function Home({
  posts,
}: InferGetStaticPropsType<typeof getStaticProps>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <main style={{margin: "3rem"}}>
      <h1>Hello World! 👋🏻 </h1>
      <ul>
        {/* Render each post with a link to the content page */}
        {posts.map(post => (
          <li key={post.id}>
            <Link href={`/post/${post.slug}`}>
              <a>{post.title}</a>
            </Link>
          </li>
        ))}
      </ul>
      </main>
    </div>
  )
}

// Here we use the Lists API to load all the posts we want to display
// The return of this function is provided to the `Home` component
export async function getStaticProps() {
  const posts = await lists.Post.findMany({ query: 'id title slug' });
  return { props: { posts } };
}
```

Now add a `/post` subdirectory in `/pages` and include the code below in `[slug].tsx`. This will generate a new webpage every time you publish a new post entry in Keystone’s Admin UI.

```tsx
// pages/post/[slug].tsx

import {
  GetStaticPathsResult,
  GetStaticPropsContext,
  InferGetStaticPropsType,
} from 'next';
import Link from 'next/link';
import { lists } from '.keystone/api';

export default function PostPage({
  post,
}: InferGetStaticPropsType<typeof getStaticProps>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <main style={{margin: "3rem"}}>
      <div>
        <Link href="/">
          <a>&larr; back home</a>
        </Link>
      </div>
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <p>{post.content}</p>
      </main>
    </div>
  );
}

export async function getStaticPaths(): Promise<GetStaticPathsResult> {
  const posts = await lists.Post.findMany({
    query: `slug`,
  });

  const paths = posts
    .map(post => post.slug)
    .filter((slug): slug is string => !!slug)
    .map(slug => `/post/${slug}`);

  return {
    paths,
    fallback: false,
  };
}

export async function getStaticProps({
  params,
}: GetStaticPropsContext) {
  const [post] = await lists.Post.findMany({
    where: { slug: { equals: params!.slug as string } },
    query: 'id title content',
  });
  return { props: { post } };
}
```

Run `yarn dev` again.

**Congratulations!** 🙌 &nbsp; You now have:

- A Next.js frontend blending static pages from your frontend repo with dynamic content from your database
- Dynamic pages powered by Keystone content that‘s editable in an intuitive Admin UI.

![Navigating between the home page and post pages](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/localhost-home-to-post.gif)

## Bonus: add the GraphQL API to the frontend

To get a read-only GraphQL API and playground in production, add `/pages/api/graphql.tsx`with the following:

```tsx
// pages/api/graphql.tsx

export { default, config } from '.keystone/next/graphql-api';
```

This takes the fully functional GraphQL API that Keystone is already generating and makes it available as an endpoint and playground within the Next.js frontend app at [http://localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql).

![A browser displaying the GraphQL playground](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/graphql-api.png)

This gives you the ability to implement a search against the same content API you have running at build time, in run time.

## Bonus: deploy to Vercel

To get your project on the internet via Vercel hosting complete the following steps:

1. Commit your project to a repository in [Github](https://github.com/), [Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/), or [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/).
2. Login to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) using an account from the services above.
3. Create a new Vercel project and link it to your newly created repository.

![A browser displaying the GraphQL playground](/assets/walkthroughs/embedded-nextjs/vercel-new-project.gif)

## Standalone VS Embedded modes

There are some limitations to be aware of running Keystone the way we've described in this tutorial:

- Because Admin UI access is restricted to a local development runtime, this mode is (currently) **not suitable when you need more than one editor**.
- SQLite doesn’t support scalability, concurrency, and centralisation as well as PostgreSQL. **If your project has scaling needs, you’re probably better off with standalone mode and external PostgreSQL hosting**.

It also has some advantages though:

- Your content and presentation are version controlled together
- It's an easy way to power a data-driven Next.js app
- The frontend can easily be deployed to hosts like Vercel

Embedded mode is a great way to operate a personal Next.js blog or portfolio with a CMS for content editing, instead of MDX.

## Summary

Keystone’s Embedded mode and SQLite support gives you the option to run a self contained CMS from the same place you keep your frontend code. While this option restricts read-write access to people who can run the project in local development, it has advantages with ease of setup, security, and web deployment. This is also a great way to deploy a read-only API on the web for content you manage on your computer.

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown description="Learn how to embed Keystone and an SQLite database into a Next.js app to get a queryable GraphQL endpoint, based on your Keystone schema, running live on Vercel.">{children}</Markdown>;
