examples/README.md, before:

# Keystone Examples

👋 Welcome to the Keystone Example Projects – a collection of projects that demonstrate Keystone features.

You can use these as jumping off point when adding features to your own Keystone project.

## Base Projects

There are two base projects which all other projects build on:

- [`task-manager`](./task-manager)
- [`blog`](./blog)

They have very simple schemas and none of the bells or whistles you'd expect in a complete project. You can use these as a starting point for general experimentation in a clean environment.

## Feature Projects

Each project below demonstrates a Keystone feature you can learn about and experiment with.

- [`withAuth()`](./with-auth): Adds password-based authentication to the Task Manager base.
- [`JSON field`](./json): Adds a JSON field to the Task Manager base.
- [`defaultValue`](./default-values): Adds default values to the Blog base.
- [`extendGraphqlSchema`](./extend-graphql-schema): Extends the GraphQL API of the Task Manager base.
- [`virtual field`](./virtual-field): Adds virtual fields to the Blog base.

## Running examples

To run an example, clone this repo and run the following commands:

```shell
yarn
cd examples/<feature>
yarn dev
```

If everything works 🤞 the GraphQL Server and Admin UI will start on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
See the README in each example for more specific details.

## Getting in touch

If you have trouble running these examples, or find a bug, please open an issue and tag it with the `examples` tag on GitHub.

Otherwise if you want to ask questions or have a chat with us, join us in [Slack](http://slack.keystonejs.com/)!

Follow [@KeystoneJS](https://twitter.com/keystonejs) on Twitter for updates.

Commit message:

Add an example for the testing package

examples/README.md, after:

# Keystone Examples

👋 Welcome to the Keystone Example Projects – a collection of projects that demonstrate Keystone features.

You can use these as jumping off point when adding features to your own Keystone project.

## Base Projects

There are two base projects which all other projects build on:

- [`task-manager`](./task-manager)
- [`blog`](./blog)

They have very simple schemas and none of the bells or whistles you'd expect in a complete project. You can use these as a starting point for general experimentation in a clean environment.

## Feature Projects

Each project below demonstrates a Keystone feature you can learn about and experiment with.

- [`withAuth()`](./with-auth): Adds password-based authentication to the Task Manager base.
- [`JSON field`](./json): Adds a JSON field to the Task Manager base.
- [`defaultValue`](./default-values): Adds default values to the Blog base.
- [`extendGraphqlSchema`](./extend-graphql-schema): Extends the GraphQL API of the Task Manager base.
- [`virtual field`](./virtual-field): Adds virtual fields to the Blog base.
- [Testing](./testing): Adds tests with `@keystone-next/testing` to the `withAuth()` example.

## Running examples

To run an example, clone this repo and run the following commands:

```shell
yarn
cd examples/<feature>
yarn dev
```

If everything works 🤞 the GraphQL Server and Admin UI will start on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
See the README in each example for more specific details.

## Getting in touch

If you have trouble running these examples, or find a bug, please open an issue and tag it with the `examples` tag on GitHub.

Otherwise if you want to ask questions or have a chat with us, join us in [Slack](http://slack.keystonejs.com/)!

Follow [@KeystoneJS](https://twitter.com/keystonejs) on Twitter for updates.
