docs-next/pages/tutorials/getting-started-with-create-keystone-app/index.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Page';

![A terminal with the output of create-keystone-app](/assets/tutorials/getting-started/cover.svg)

# Getting started

[`create-keystone-app`](https://github.com/keystonejs/create-keystone-app) is a CLI app that makes it easier for you to get started with Keystone.
It will generate a couple of files for you and install all the dependencies you need to run the Admin UI and start using the GraphQL API.

## Quick Start

```sh
yarn create keystone-app
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

## Installing your own Keystone instance

Open your preferred shell and make sure you are in the folder you would like to create your new project in.
`create-keystone-app` will generate a new folder with your new Keystone files in it.

### Yarn

Use [`yarn create`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/create/):

```sh
cd your/path/
yarn create keystone-app
```

### npm

Use [`npm init`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-init):

```sh
cd your/path/
npm init keystone-app
```

?> `npm init "<initializer>"` is available in npm 6+

### npx

Use npm's [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx):

```sh
cd your/path/
npx create-keystone-app
```

?> `npx` comes with npm 5.2+

## Connecting your database

The CLI will ask you to name your new app and for a way to connect to your database.
Make sure you have your connection URL ready for your database, e.g. `postgres://localhost/my-app` or `postgres://username:password@localhost/my-app`.

?> If you run into trouble with the database, check out this guide on [Database Setup](https://www.keystonejs.com/quick-start/adapters)

## Opening your shiny new Admin UI

![The AdminUI of Keystone showing the two lists: User and Posts](/assets/tutorials/getting-started/adminui.png)

After running `create-keystone-app` you can now `cd` into the folder that was created for you and start Keystone.

```sh
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

This will generate the Admin UI pages via [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

![The welcome screen giving you the ability the create a new user to log into the AdminUI](/assets/tutorials/getting-started/welcome-screen.png)

When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asks you to create a user.
Go ahead and create your first user.
The email address and password will be used as the login details when you next need to login to the Admin UI.

Once you've created the user you can see your new Keystone Admin UI that comes with two visible lists.
You can use the Admin UI to explore and interact with the data in your system.

## Output

We now have some files in the newly generated folder. The two most important once you want to get into are `keystone.ts` and `schema.ts`.

```sh
.
├── keystone.ts   # The main entry file for Keystone
├── node_modules  # Your dependencies
├── package.json  # Your package.json with three scripts prepared for you
├── schema.ts     # The schema of your data
├── tsconfig.json # Your typescript config
└── yarn.lock     # And finally your yarn lock file
```

## Scripts

The files come with three npm scripts you can run locally.

`dev`

- The `dev` script will run Keystone in development mode.
  Jump over to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see your Admin UI.

`build`

- The `build` script will build the project and is required to be run before `start`.

`start`

- The `start` script will run Keystone in production mode.

Read more about the cli in our [command line guides](/guides/cli).

## Where to next?

- Customize Keystone with the [System Configuration API](/apis/config).
- Add fields and relationships using [Schema API](/apis/schema).

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>

;

Commit message:

docs(getting started): add a note about homebrew

docs-next/pages/tutorials/getting-started-with-create-keystone-app/index.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../../components/Page';

![A terminal with the output of create-keystone-app](/assets/tutorials/getting-started/cover.svg)

# Getting started

[`create-keystone-app`](https://github.com/keystonejs/create-keystone-app) is a CLI app that makes it easier for you to get started with Keystone.
It will generate a couple of files for you and install all the dependencies you need to run the Admin UI and start using the GraphQL API.

## Quick Start

```sh
yarn create keystone-app
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

## Installing your own Keystone instance

Open your preferred shell and make sure you are in the folder you would like to create your new project in.
`create-keystone-app` will generate a new folder with your new Keystone files in it.

### Yarn

Use [`yarn create`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/create/):

```sh
cd your/path/
yarn create keystone-app
```

### npm

Use [`npm init`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-init):

```sh
cd your/path/
npm init keystone-app
```

?> `npm init "<initializer>"` is available in npm 6+

### npx

Use npm's [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npx):

```sh
cd your/path/
npx create-keystone-app
```

?> `npx` comes with npm 5.2+

## Connecting your database

The CLI will ask you to name your new app and for a way to connect to your database.
Make sure you have your connection URL ready for your database, e.g. `postgres://localhost/my-app` or `postgres://username:password@localhost/my-app`.

?> If you installed PostgreSQL via homebrew, you may need to define the user of your computer like `postgres://my-username:localhost/my-app`.

?> If you run into trouble with the database, check out this guide on [Database Setup](https://www.keystonejs.com/quick-start/adapters)

## Opening your shiny new Admin UI

![The AdminUI of Keystone showing the two lists: User and Posts](/assets/tutorials/getting-started/adminui.png)

After running `create-keystone-app` you can now `cd` into the folder that was created for you and start Keystone.

```sh
cd my-app
yarn dev
```

This will generate the Admin UI pages via [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

![The welcome screen giving you the ability the create a new user to log into the AdminUI](/assets/tutorials/getting-started/welcome-screen.png)

When you visit the Admin UI for the first time you will be presented with a handy screen that asks you to create a user.
Go ahead and create your first user.
The email address and password will be used as the login details when you next need to login to the Admin UI.

Once you've created the user you can see your new Keystone Admin UI that comes with two visible lists.
You can use the Admin UI to explore and interact with the data in your system.

## Output

We now have some files in the newly generated folder. The two most important once you want to get into are `keystone.ts` and `schema.ts`.

```sh
.
├── keystone.ts   # The main entry file for Keystone
├── node_modules  # Your dependencies
├── package.json  # Your package.json with three scripts prepared for you
├── schema.ts     # The schema of your data
├── tsconfig.json # Your typescript config
└── yarn.lock     # And finally your yarn lock file
```

## Scripts

The files come with three npm scripts you can run locally.

`dev`

- The `dev` script will run Keystone in development mode.
  Jump over to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to see your Admin UI.

`build`

- The `build` script will build the project and is required to be run before `start`.

`start`

- The `start` script will run Keystone in production mode.

Read more about the cli in our [command line guides](/guides/cli).

## Where to next?

- Customize Keystone with the [System Configuration API](/apis/config).
- Add fields and relationships using [Schema API](/apis/schema).

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>

;
