docs-next/pages/apis/config.mdx, before:

import { Markdown } from '../../components/Page';

# System Configuration API

The `keystone-next` CLI expects to find a module named `keystone.ts` with a default export of a Keystone system configuration returned from the function `config()`.

```typescript filename=keystone.ts
import { config } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({ /* ... */ });
```

The `config` function accepts an object representing all the configurable parts of the system:

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: { /* ... */ },
  db: { /* ... */ },
  ui: { /* ... */ },
  server: { /* ... */ },
  session: () => { /* ... */ },
  graphql: { /* ... */ },
  extendGraphqlSchema: { /* ... */ },
  experimental: { /* ... */ },
});
```

We will cover each of these options below.

The configuration object has a TypeScript type of `KeystoneConfig`, which can be imported from `@keystone-next/types`.
This type definition should be considered the source of truth for the available configuration options.

## lists

The `lists` config option is where you define the data model, or schema, of the Keystone system.
It has a TypeScript type of `ListSchemaConfig`.
This is where you define and configure the `lists` and their `fields` of the data model.
In general you will use the `createSchema()` function to create this configuration option.
See the [Schema API](./schema) docs for details on how to use this function.

```typescript
import type { ListSchemaConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
import { config, createSchema } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({ /* ... */ }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## db

```
import type { DatabaseConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `db` config option configures the database used to store data in your Keystone system.
It has a TypeScript type of `DatabaseConfig`.
Keystone supports the database types **PostgreSQL** and **SQLite**.
These database types are powered by their corresponding Prisma database providers; `postgresql` and `sqlite`.

All database adapters require the `url` argument, which defines the connection URL for your database.
They also all have an optional `onConnect` async function, which takes a [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object, and lets perform any actions you might need at startup, such as data seeding.

As well as these common options, each provider supports a number of optional advanced configuration options.

### postgresql

Advanced configuration:

- `enableLogging` (default: `false`): Enable logging from the Prisma client.
- `useMigrations` (default: `false`): Determines whether to use migrations or automatically force-update the database with the latest schema and potentially lose data.

```typescript
export default config({
  db: {
    provider: 'postgresql',
    url: 'postgres://dbuser:dbpass@localhost:5432/keystone',
    onConnect: async context => { /* ... */ },
    // Optional advanced configuration
    enableLogging: true,
    useMigrations: true,
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

### sqlite

Advanced configuration:

- `enableLogging` (default: `false`): Enable logging from the Prisma client.
- `useMigrations` (default: `false`): Determines whether to use migrations or automatically force-update the database with the latest schema and potentially lose data.

```typescript
export default config({
  db: {
    provider: 'sqlite',
    url: 'file:./keystone.db',
    onConnect: async context => { /* ... */ },
    // Optional advanced configuration
    enableLogging: true,
    useMigrations: true,
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

#### Limitations

The `sqlite` provider is not intended to be used in production systems, and has certain limitations:

- `document`: The `document` field type is not supported.
- `decimal`: The `decimal` field type is not supported.
- `timestamp`: The `timestamp` field type only supports times within the range `1970 - 2038`.
- `text`: The `text` field type does not support the advanced filtering operations `contains`, `starts_with`, `ends_with`, or case insensitive filtering.
- `autoIncrement`: The `autoIncrement` field type can only be used as an `id` field.
- `select`: Using the `dataType: 'enum'` will use a GraphQL `String` type, rather than an `Enum` type.

## ui

```
import type { AdminUIConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `ui` config option configures the Admin UI which is provided by Keystone.
It has a TypeScript type of `AdminUIConfig`.
This config option is for top level configuration of the Admin UI.
Fine grained configuration of how lists and fields behave in the Admin UI is handled in the `lists` definition (see the [Schema API](./schema) for more details).

Options:

- `isDisabled` (default: `false`): If `isDisabled` is set to `true` then the Admin UI will be completely disabled.
- `isAccessAllowed` (default: `(context) => !!context.session`): This function controls whether a user is able to access the Admin UI.
  It takes a [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object as an argument.

Advanced configuration:

(coming soon)

```typescript
export default config({
  ui: {
    isDisabled: false,
    isAccessAllowed: async context => true,
    // Optional advanced configuration
    enableSessionItem: true,
    publicPages: [],
    getAdditionalFiles: async () => [],
    pageMiddleware: (async() = {}),
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

## server

```
import type { ServerConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The **run** commands from the Keystone [command line](../guides/cli) will start an Express web-server for you.
This server is configured via the `server` configuration option.

Options:

- `cors` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to configure the [cors middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors#configuration-options) for your Express server.
  If left undefined `cors` will not be used.
- `port` (default: `3000` ): The port your Express server will listen on.

```typescript
export default config({
  server: {
    cors: { origin: ['http://localhost:7777'], credentials: true }:
    port: 3000
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

## session

```
import type { SessionStrategy } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `session` config option allows you to configure session management of your Keystone system.
It has a TypeScript type of `() => SessionStrategy<any>`.

In general you will use functions from the `@keystone-next/keystone/session` package, rather than writing this function yourself.

```typescript
import { statelessSessions, withItemData } from '@keystone-next/keystone/session';

export default config({
  session: withItemData(
    statelessSessions({ /* ... */ }),
    { /* ... */ }
  ),
  /* ... */
});
```

See the [Session API](./session) for more details on how to configure session management in Keystone.

## graphql

```
import type { GraphQLConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `graphql` config option allows you to configures certain aspects of your GraphQL API.
It has a TypeScript type of `GraphQLConfig`.

Options:

- `queryLimits` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to limit the total number of results returned from a query to your GraphQL API.
  See also the per-list `graphql.queryLimits` option in the [Schema API](./schema).
- `apolloConfig` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to pass extra options into the `ApolloServer` constructor.
  See the [Apollo docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/api/apollo-server/#constructor) for supported options.

```typescript
export default config({
  graphql: {
    queryLimits: { maxTotalResults: 100 },
    apolloConfig: { /* ... */ },
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

## extendGraphqlSchema

```
import type { ExtendGraphqlSchema } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `extendGraphqlSchema` config option allows you to extend the GraphQL API which is generated by Keystone based on your schema definition.
It has a TypeScript type of `ExtendGraphqlSchema`.

In general you will use the function `graphQLSchemaExtension({ typeDefs, resolvers })` to create your schema extension.

```typescript
import { config, graphQLSchemaExtension } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  extendGraphqlSchema: graphQLSchemaExtension({ typeDefs, resolvers }),
  /* ... */
});
```

See the [schema extension guide](../guides/schema-extension) for more details on how to use `graphQLSchemaExtension()` to extend your GraphQL API.

## experimental

The following flags allow you to enable features which are still in preview.
These features are not guaranteed to work, and should be used with caution.

```typescript
import { config } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  experimental: {
    enableNextJsGraphqlApiEndpoint: true,
    generateNextGraphqlAPI: true,
    generateNodeAPI: true,
  }
  /* ... */
});
```

Options:

- `enableNextJsGraphqlApiEndpoint`: (coming soon)
- `generateNextGraphqlAPI`: Creates a file at `node_modules/.keystone/next/graphql-api` with `default` and `config` exports that can be re-exported in a Next API route
- `generateNodeAPI`: Creates a file at `node_modules/.keystone/api` with a `lists` export

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>;

Commit message:

Add docs for the image field type (#5497)

docs-next/pages/apis/config.mdx, after:

import { Markdown } from '../../components/Page';

# System Configuration API

The `keystone-next` CLI expects to find a module named `keystone.ts` with a default export of a Keystone system configuration returned from the function `config()`.

```typescript filename=keystone.ts
import { config } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({ /* ... */ });
```

The `config` function accepts an object representing all the configurable parts of the system:

```typescript
export default config({
  lists: { /* ... */ },
  db: { /* ... */ },
  ui: { /* ... */ },
  server: { /* ... */ },
  session: () => { /* ... */ },
  graphql: { /* ... */ },
  extendGraphqlSchema: { /* ... */ },
  images: { /* ... */ },
  experimental: { /* ... */ },
});
```

We will cover each of these options below.

The configuration object has a TypeScript type of `KeystoneConfig`, which can be imported from `@keystone-next/types`.
This type definition should be considered the source of truth for the available configuration options.

## lists

The `lists` config option is where you define the data model, or schema, of the Keystone system.
It has a TypeScript type of `ListSchemaConfig`.
This is where you define and configure the `lists` and their `fields` of the data model.
In general you will use the `createSchema()` function to create this configuration option.
See the [Schema API](./schema) docs for details on how to use this function.

```typescript
import type { ListSchemaConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
import { config, createSchema } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  lists: createSchema({ /* ... */ }),
  /* ... */
});
```

## db

```
import type { DatabaseConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `db` config option configures the database used to store data in your Keystone system.
It has a TypeScript type of `DatabaseConfig`.
Keystone supports the database types **PostgreSQL** and **SQLite**.
These database types are powered by their corresponding Prisma database providers; `postgresql` and `sqlite`.

All database adapters require the `url` argument, which defines the connection URL for your database.
They also all have an optional `onConnect` async function, which takes a [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object, and lets perform any actions you might need at startup, such as data seeding.

As well as these common options, each provider supports a number of optional advanced configuration options.

### postgresql

Advanced configuration:

- `enableLogging` (default: `false`): Enable logging from the Prisma client.
- `useMigrations` (default: `false`): Determines whether to use migrations or automatically force-update the database with the latest schema and potentially lose data.

```typescript
export default config({
  db: {
    provider: 'postgresql',
    url: 'postgres://dbuser:dbpass@localhost:5432/keystone',
    onConnect: async context => { /* ... */ },
    // Optional advanced configuration
    enableLogging: true,
    useMigrations: true,
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

### sqlite

Advanced configuration:

- `enableLogging` (default: `false`): Enable logging from the Prisma client.
- `useMigrations` (default: `false`): Determines whether to use migrations or automatically force-update the database with the latest schema and potentially lose data.

```typescript
export default config({
  db: {
    provider: 'sqlite',
    url: 'file:./keystone.db',
    onConnect: async context => { /* ... */ },
    // Optional advanced configuration
    enableLogging: true,
    useMigrations: true,
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

#### Limitations

The `sqlite` provider is not intended to be used in production systems, and has certain limitations:

- `document`: The `document` field type is not supported.
- `decimal`: The `decimal` field type is not supported.
- `timestamp`: The `timestamp` field type only supports times within the range `1970 - 2038`.
- `text`: The `text` field type does not support the advanced filtering operations `contains`, `starts_with`, `ends_with`, or case insensitive filtering.
- `autoIncrement`: The `autoIncrement` field type can only be used as an `id` field.
- `select`: Using the `dataType: 'enum'` will use a GraphQL `String` type, rather than an `Enum` type.

## ui

```
import type { AdminUIConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `ui` config option configures the Admin UI which is provided by Keystone.
It has a TypeScript type of `AdminUIConfig`.
This config option is for top level configuration of the Admin UI.
Fine grained configuration of how lists and fields behave in the Admin UI is handled in the `lists` definition (see the [Schema API](./schema) for more details).

Options:

- `isDisabled` (default: `false`): If `isDisabled` is set to `true` then the Admin UI will be completely disabled.
- `isAccessAllowed` (default: `(context) => !!context.session`): This function controls whether a user is able to access the Admin UI.
  It takes a [`KeystoneContext`](./context) object as an argument.

Advanced configuration:

(coming soon)

```typescript
export default config({
  ui: {
    isDisabled: false,
    isAccessAllowed: async context => true,
    // Optional advanced configuration
    enableSessionItem: true,
    publicPages: [],
    getAdditionalFiles: async () => [],
    pageMiddleware: (async() = {}),
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

## server

```
import type { ServerConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The **run** commands from the Keystone [command line](../guides/cli) will start an Express web-server for you.
This server is configured via the `server` configuration option.

Options:

- `cors` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to configure the [cors middleware](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cors#configuration-options) for your Express server.
  If left undefined `cors` will not be used.
- `port` (default: `3000` ): The port your Express server will listen on.

```typescript
export default config({
  server: {
    cors: { origin: ['http://localhost:7777'], credentials: true }:
    port: 3000
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

## session

```
import type { SessionStrategy } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `session` config option allows you to configure session management of your Keystone system.
It has a TypeScript type of `() => SessionStrategy<any>`.

In general you will use functions from the `@keystone-next/keystone/session` package, rather than writing this function yourself.

```typescript
import { statelessSessions, withItemData } from '@keystone-next/keystone/session';

export default config({
  session: withItemData(
    statelessSessions({ /* ... */ }),
    { /* ... */ }
  ),
  /* ... */
});
```

See the [Session API](./session) for more details on how to configure session management in Keystone.

## graphql

```
import type { GraphQLConfig } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `graphql` config option allows you to configures certain aspects of your GraphQL API.
It has a TypeScript type of `GraphQLConfig`.

Options:

- `queryLimits` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to limit the total number of results returned from a query to your GraphQL API.
  See also the per-list `graphql.queryLimits` option in the [Schema API](./schema).
- `apolloConfig` (default: `undefined`): Allows you to pass extra options into the `ApolloServer` constructor.
  See the [Apollo docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/api/apollo-server/#constructor) for supported options.

```typescript
export default config({
  graphql: {
    queryLimits: { maxTotalResults: 100 },
    apolloConfig: { /* ... */ },
  },
  /* ... */
});
```

## extendGraphqlSchema

```
import type { ExtendGraphqlSchema } from '@keystone-next/types';
```

The `extendGraphqlSchema` config option allows you to extend the GraphQL API which is generated by Keystone based on your schema definition.
It has a TypeScript type of `ExtendGraphqlSchema`.

In general you will use the function `graphQLSchemaExtension({ typeDefs, resolvers })` to create your schema extension.

```typescript
import { config, graphQLSchemaExtension } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  extendGraphqlSchema: graphQLSchemaExtension({ typeDefs, resolvers }),
  /* ... */
});
```

See the [schema extension guide](../guides/schema-extension) for more details on how to use `graphQLSchemaExtension()` to extend your GraphQL API.

## images

Keystone supports image handling via the [`image`](./fields#image) field type.
In order to use this field type you need to configure Keystone with information about where your images will be stored and served from.
At the moment Keystone supports storing files on the local filesystem, and is agnostic about how images are served.

```typescript
import { config } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  images: {
    upload: 'local',
    local: {
      storagePath: 'public/images',
      baseUrl: '/images',
    },
  }
  /* ... */
});
```

Options:

- `upload`: The storage target when uploading images. Currently only `local` is supported.
- `local`: Configuration options when using the `local` storage target.
  - `storagePath`: The path local images are uploaded to.
  - `baseUrl`: The base of the URL local images will be served from, outside of keystone.


## experimental

The following flags allow you to enable features which are still in preview.
These features are not guaranteed to work, and should be used with caution.

```typescript
import { config } from '@keystone-next/keystone/schema';

export default config({
  experimental: {
    enableNextJsGraphqlApiEndpoint: true,
    generateNextGraphqlAPI: true,
    generateNodeAPI: true,
  }
  /* ... */
});
```

Options:

- `enableNextJsGraphqlApiEndpoint`: (coming soon)
- `generateNextGraphqlAPI`: Creates a file at `node_modules/.keystone/next/graphql-api` with `default` and `config` exports that can be re-exported in a Next API route
- `generateNodeAPI`: Creates a file at `node_modules/.keystone/api` with a `lists` export

export default ({ children }) => <Markdown>{children}</Markdown>;
