examples/custom-field-view/README.md, before:

## Base Project - Blog

This project implements a basic **Blog**, with `Posts` and `Authors`.

You can use it as a starting place for learning how to use Keystone.

## Instructions

To run this project, clone the Keystone repository locally then navigate to this directory and run:

```shell
yarn dev
```

This will start the Admin UI at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
You can use the Admin UI to create items in your database.

You can also access a GraphQL Playground at [localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql), which allows you to directly run GraphQL queries and mutations.

🚀 Congratulations, you're now up and running with Keystone!

## Next steps

This project is bare bones, and doesn't use any of Keystone's advanced features.
We encourage you to experiment with the code here to see how Keystone works, become familiar with the Admin UI, and learn about the GraphQL Playground.

Once you've got the hang of using this project, you can check out the [feature examples](../).
These projects build on this starter project and show you how to use Keystones advanced features to take your project to the next level.

When you've got the hang of the Blog app, try a [feature project](../) to learn Keystone's advanced features and take your knowledge to the next level.

Commit message:

Update schema and cleanup the custom field view navigation-item

examples/custom-field-view/README.md, after:

## Base Project - Blog

This project implements a basic **Blog**, with `Posts` (with custom field view for "related link") and `Authors`.

You can use it as a starting place for learning how to use Keystone.

## Instructions

To run this project, clone the Keystone repository locally then navigate to this directory and run:

```shell
yarn dev
```

This will start the Admin UI at [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
You can use the Admin UI to create items in your database.

You can also access a GraphQL Playground at [localhost:3000/api/graphql](http://localhost:3000/api/graphql), which allows you to directly run GraphQL queries and mutations.

🚀 Congratulations, you're now up and running with Keystone!

## Next steps

This project is bare bones, and doesn't use any of Keystone's advanced features.
We encourage you to experiment with the code here to see how Keystone works, become familiar with the Admin UI, and learn about the GraphQL Playground.

Once you've got the hang of using this project, you can check out the [feature examples](../).
These projects build on this starter project and show you how to use Keystones advanced features to take your project to the next level.

When you've got the hang of the Blog app, try a [feature project](../) to learn Keystone's advanced features and take your knowledge to the next level.
